Uses unidirectional language model for producing word embedding a. BERT b. GPT c. ELMo d. Word2Vec Answer : b) GPT is a unidirectional model and word embedding are produced by training on information flow from left to right. ELMo is bidirectional but shallow. Word2Vec provides simple word embedding. Q33. In this architecture, the relationship between all words in a sentence is modelled irrespective of their position. Which architecture is this? a. OpenAI GPT b. ELMo c. BERT d. ULMFit Answer : c)BERT Transformer architecture models the relationship between each word and all other words in the sentence to generate attention scores. These attention scores are later used as weights for a weighted average of all words' representations which is fed into a fully-connected network to generate a new representation. Q34. List 10 use cases to be solved using NLP techniques? ● Sentiment Analysis ● Language Translation (English to German, Chinese to English, etc.) ● Document Summarization ● Question Answering ● Sentence Completion ● Attribute extraction (Key information extraction from the documents) ● Chatbot interactions ● Topic classification ● Intent extraction ● Grammar or Sentence correction ● Image captioning ● Document Ranking ● Natural Language inference Q35. Transformer model pays attention to the most important word in Sentence a. True b. False Steve Nouri Answer : a) Attention mechanisms in the Transformer model are used to model the relationship between all words and also provide weights to the most important word. Q36. Which NLP model gives the best accuracy amongst the following? a. BERT b. XLNET c. GPT-2 d. ELMo Answer : b) XLNET has given best accuracy amongst all the models. It has outperformed BERT on 20 tasks and achieves state of art results on 18 tasks including sentiment analysis, question answering, natural language inference, etc. Q37. Permutation Language models is a feature of a. BERT b. EMMo c. GPT d. XLNET Answer : d) XLNET provides permutation-based language modelling and is a key difference from BERT. In permutation language modeling, tokens are predicted in a random manner and not sequential. The order of prediction is not necessarily left to right and can be right to left. The original order of words is not changed but a prediction can be random. The conceptual difference between BERT and XLNET can be seen from the following diagram. Q38. Transformer XL uses relative positional embedding a. True b. False a) Instead of embedding having to represent the absolute position of a word, Transformer XL uses an embedding to encode the relative distance between the words. This embedding is used to compute the attention score between any 2 words that could be separated by n words before or after. Q39. What is Naive Bayes algorithm, When we can use this algorithm in NLP? Naive Bayes algorithm is a collection of classifiers which works on the principles of the Bayes' theorem. This series of NLP model forms a family of algorithms that can be used for a wide range of classification tasks including sentiment prediction, filtering of spam, classifying documents and more. Naive Bayes algorithm converges faster and requires less training data. Compared to other discriminative models like logistic regression, Naive Bayes model it takes lesser time to train. This algorithm is perfect for use while working with multiple classes and text classification where the data is dynamic and changes frequently. Q40. Explain Dependency Parsing in NLP? Steve Nouri Dependency Parsing, also known as Syntactic parsing in NLP is a process of assigning syntactic structure to a sentence and identifying its dependency parses. This process is crucial to understand the correlations between the "head" words in the syntactic structure. The process of dependency parsing can be a little complex considering how any sentence can have more than one dependency parses. Multiple parse trees are known as ambiguities. Dependency parsing needs to resolve these ambiguities in order to effectively assign a syntactic structure to a sentence. Dependency parsing can be used in the semantic analysis of a sentence apart from the syntactic structuring. Q41. What is text Summarization? Text summarization is the process of shortening a long piece of text with its meaning and effect intact.