Let's say you've been working on part of your project, things are in a messy state and you want to switch branches for some time to work on something else. The problem is, you don't want to do a commit of your half-done work just, so you can get back to this point later. The answer to this issue is Git stash. Git Stashing takes your working directory that is, your modified tracked files and staged changes and saves it on a stack of unfinished changes that you can reapply at any time. Q34) What is Git stash drop? Git 'stash drop' command is basically used to remove the stashed item. It will basically remove the last added stash item by default, and it can also remove a specific item if you include it as an argument. I have provided an example below: If you want to remove any particular stash item from the list of stashed items you can use the below commands: git stash list: It will display the list of stashed items as follows: stash@{0}: WIP on master: 049d080 added the index file stash@{1}: WIP on master: c265351 Revert "added files" stash@{2}: WIP on master: 13d80a5 added number to log Q35) What is the function of 'git config'? Git uses our username to associate commits with an identity. The git config command can be used to change our Git configuration, including your username. Suppose you want to give a username and email id to associate commit with an identity so that you can know who has made a commit. For that I will use: git config -global user.name "Your Name": This command will add your username. git config -global user.email "Your E-mail Address": This command will add your email id. Q36) How can you create a repository in Git? To create a repository, you must create a directory for the project if it does not exist, then run command "git init". By running this command .git directory will be created inside the project directory. Q37) Describe the branching strategies you have used? Generally, they ask this question to understand your branching knowledge Feature branching This model keeps all the changes for a feature inside of a branch. When the feature branch is fully tested and validated by automated tests, the branch is then merged into master. Task branching In this task branching model each task is implemented on its own branch with the task key included in the branch name. It is quite easy to see which code implements which task, just look for the task key in the branch name. Release branching Once the develop branch has acquired enough features for a release, then we can clone that branch to form a Release branch. Creating this release branch starts the next release cycle, so no new features can be added after this point, only bug fixes, documentation generation, and other release-oriented tasks should go in this branch. Once it's ready to ship, the release gets merged into master and then tagged with a version number. In addition, it should be merged back into develop branch, which may have progressed since the release was initiated earlier. Q38) What is Jenkins? Jenkins is an open source continuous integration tool which is written in Java language. It keeps a track on version control system and to initiate and monitor a build system if any changes occur. It monitors the whole process and provides reports and notifications to alert the concern team. Q39) What is the difference between Maven, Ant and Jenkins? Maven and Ant are Build Technologies whereas Jenkins is a continuous integration(CI/CD) tool. Q40) Explain what is continuous integration? When multiple developers or teams are working on different segments of same web application, we need to perform integration test by integrating all the modules. To do that an automated process for each piece of code is performed on daily bases so that all your code gets tested. And this whole process is termed as continuous integration. Q41) What is the relation between Hudson and Jenkins? Hudson was the earlier name of current Jenkins. After some issue faced, the project name was changed from Hudson to Jenkins. Q42) What are the advantages of Jenkins? Advantage of using Jenkins • Bug tracking is easy at early stage in development environment. • Provides a very large numbers of plugin support. • Iterative improvement to the code, code is basically divided into small sprints.