• Non-relationals and schema-less data models • Low latency and high performance • Highly scalable Q166) What Are Adoptions Of Devops In Industry? • Use of the agile and other development processes and methods. • Demand for an increased rate of the production releases from application and business. • Wide availability of virtuals and cloud infrastructure from both internal and external providers; • Increased usage of the data center ,automation and configuration management tools; • Increased focus on the test automation and continuous integration methods; • Best practices on the critical issues. Q167) How Is the Chef Used As a Cm Tool ? Chef is the considered to be one of the preferred industry-wide CM tools. Facebook migrated its an infrastructure and backend IT to the Chef platform, for example. Explain how to the Chef helps you to avoid delays by automating processes. The scripts are written in Ruby. It can integrate with a cloud-based platforms and configure new systems. It provides many libraries for the infrastructure development that can later to be deployed within a software. Thanks to its centralized management system, one of the Chef server is enough to be used as the center for deploying various policies. Q168) Why Are the Configuration Management Processes And Tools Important ? Talk about to multiple software builds, releases, revisions, and versions for each other software or testware that is being developed. Move on to explain the need for storing and maintaining data, keeping track of the development builds and simplified troubleshooting. Don't forget to mention that key CM tools that can be used to the achieve these objectives. Talk about how to tools like Puppet, Ansible, and Chef help in automating software deployment and configuration on several servers. Q169) Which Are the Some Of the Most Popular Devops Tools ? The most popular DevOps tools included` • Selenium • Puppet • Chef • Git • Jenkins • Ansible Q170) What Are the Vagrant And Its Uses? Vagrant used to virtual box as the hypervisor for virtual environments and in current scenario it is also supporting the KVM. Kernel-based Virtual Machine. Vagrant is a tool that can created and managed environments for the testing and developing software. Devops Training Free Demo Q171) How to Devops Is Helpful To Developers ? To fix the bug and implements new features of the quickly. It provides to the clarity of communications among team members. Q172) Name of The Popular Scripting Language Of the Devops ? Python Q173) List of The Agile Methodology Of the Devops? • DevOps is a process • Agile is the same as DevOps. • Separate group are framed. • It is problem solving. • Developers managing production • DevOps is the development-driven release management Q174) Which Are The Areas of Devops Are Implemented? • Production Development • Creation of the productions feedback and its development • IT Operations development Q175) The Scope For SSH ? • SSH is a Secure Shell which provides users with a secure, encrypted mechanism to log into systems and transfer files. • To log out the remote machine and worked on command line. • To secure encrypted of the communications between two hosts over an insecure network. Q176) What Are The Advantages Of Devops With Respect To the Technical And Business Perspective? Technical benefits • Software delivery is continuous. • Reduces Complexity in problems. • Faster approach to resolve problems • Manpower is reduced. Business benefits • High rate of delivering its features • Stable operating environments • More time gained to Add values. • Enabling faster feature time to market Q177) What Are The Core Operations Of the Devops In Terms Of the Development And Infrastructure ? The core operations of DevOps • Application development • Code developing • Code coverage • Unit testing • Packaging • Deployment With infrastructure • Provisioning • Configuration • Orchestration • Deployment Q178) What Are The Anti-patterns Of Devops? A pattern is common usage usually followed. If a pattern of thecommonly adopted by others does not work for your organization and you continue to blindly follow it, you are essentially adopting an anti- pattern. There are myths about DevOps. Some of them include • DevOps is a process • Agile equals DevOps • We need a separate DevOps group • Devops will solve all our problems • DevOps means Developers Managing Production • DevOps is Development-driven release management • DevOps is not development driven. • DevOps is not IT Operations driven.