Of these possible set of questions, which one is the best to ask so that our data is split into two sets after the first node? Remember we are trying to split or classify our data into separate classes. Our question should be such that our data is partitioned into as unmixed or pure classes as possible. An impure set or class here refers to one which has many different types of objects for example if we ask the question for the above data, "Is the color green?" our data will be split into two sets one of which will be pure the other will have a mixed set of labels. If we assign a label to a mixed set, we have higher chances of being incorrect. But how do we measure this impurity? Gini Impurity and Information Gain - CART CART (Classification and Regression Trees) → uses Gini Index (Classification) as metric. The Gini Impurity (GI) metric measures the homogeneity of a set of items. The lowest possible value of GI is 0.0. The maximum value of GI depends on the particular problem being investigated but gets close to 1.0. Suppose for example you have 12 items - apples, grapes, lemons. If there are 0 apples, 0 grapes, 12 lemons, then you have minimal impurity (this is good for decision trees) and GI = 0.0. But if you have 4 apples, 4 grapes, 4 lemons, you have maximum impurity and it turns out that GI = 0.667. I'll show example calculations. Maximum GI: Apples, Grapes, Lemons When the number of items is evenly distributed, as in the example above, you have maximum GI but the exact value depends on how many items there are. A bit less than maximum GI: In the example above, the items are not quite evenly distributed, and the GI is slightly less (which is better when used for decision trees). Minimum GI: The Gini index is not at all the same as a different metric called the Gini coefficient. The Gini impurity metric can be used when creating a decision tree but there are alternatives, including Entropy Information gain. The advantage of GI is its simplicity. Information Gain Information gain is another metric which tells us how much a question unmixes the labels at a node. "Mathematically it is just a difference between impurity values before splitting the data at a node and the weighted average of the impurity after the split". For instance, if we go back to our data of apples, lemons and grapes and ask the question "Is the color Green?" The information gain by asking this question is 0.144. Similarly, we can ask another question from the set of possible questions split the data and compute information gain. This is also called (Recursive Binary Splitting). The question where we have the highest information gain "Is diameter ≥ 3?" is the best question to ask. Note that the information gain is same for the question "Is the color red?" we just picked the first one at random. Repeating the same method at the child node we can complete the tree. Note that no further questions can be asked which would increase the information gain. Also note that the rightmost leaf which says 50% Apple & 50% lemon means that this class cannot be divided further, and this branch can tell an apple or a lemon with 50% probability. For the grape and apple branches we stop asking further questions since the Gini Impurity is 0 for those. Entropy and Information Gain - ID3 ID3 (Iterative Dichotomiser 3) → uses Entropy function and Information gain as metrics. If the sample is completely homogeneous the entropy is zero and if the sample is an equally divided it has entropy of one. To build a decision tree, we need to calculate two types of entropy using frequency tables as follows: a) Entropy using the frequency table of one attribute: b) Entropy using the frequency table of two attributes: Information Gain The information gain is based on the decrease in entropy after a dataset is split on an attribute. Constructing a decision tree is all about finding attribute that returns the highest information gain (i.e., the most homogeneous branches). Step 1: Calculate entropy of the target. Step 2: The dataset is then split on the different attributes. The entropy for each branch is calculated. Then it is added proportionally, to get total entropy for the split. The resulting entropy is subtracted from the entropy before the split.