Object Identification: Which type of a given object is in this photograph? Object Verification: Is the object in the photograph? Object Detection: Where are the objects in the photograph? Object Landmark Detection: What are the key points for the object in the photograph? Object Segmentation: What pixels belong to the object in the image? Object Recognition: What objects are in this photograph and where are they? Q52 Explain the distinction between Computer Vision and Image Processing. Computer vision is distinct from image processing. Image processing is the process of creating a new image from an existing image, typically simplifying or enhancing the content in some way. It is a type of digital signal processing and is not concerned with understanding the content of an image. A given computer vision system may require image processing to be applied to raw input, e.g. pre-processing images. Examples of image processing include: ● Normalizing photometric properties of the image, such as brightness or color. ● Cropping the bounds of the image, such as centering an object in a photograph. ● Removing digital noise from an image, such as digital artifacts from low light levels. Steve Nouri Q53 Explain business use cases in computer vision. ● Optical character recognition (OCR) ● Machine inspection ● Retail (e.g. automated checkouts) ● 3D model building (photogrammetry) ● Medical imaging ● Automotive safety ● Match move (e.g. merging CGI with live actors in movies) ● Motion capture (mocap) ● Surveillance ● Fingerprint recognition and biometrics Q54 What is the Boltzmann Machine? One of the most basic Deep Learning models is a Boltzmann Machine, resembling a simplified version of the Multi-Layer Perceptron. This model features a visible input layer and a hidden layer -- just a two-layer neural net that makes stochastic decisions as to whether a neuron should be on or off. Nodes are connected across layers, but no two nodes of the same layer are connected. Q56 What Is the Role of Activation Functions in a Neural Network? At the most basic level, an activation function decides whether a neuron should be fired or not. It accepts the weighted sum of the inputs and bias as input to any activation function. Step function, Sigmoid, ReLU, Tanh, and Softmax are examples of activation functions. Q57 What Is the Difference Between a Feedforward Neural Network and Recurrent Neural Network? A Feedforward Neural Network signals travel in one direction from input to output. There are no feedback loops; the network considers only the current input. It cannot memorize previous inputs (e.g., CNN). Q58 What Are the Applications of a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)? The RNN can be used for sentiment analysis, text mining, and image captioning. Recurrent Neural Networks can also address time series problems such as predicting the prices of stocks in a month or quarter. Q59 What Are the Softmax and ReLU Functions? Softmax is an activation function that generates the output between zero and one. It divides each output, such that the total sum of the outputs is equal to one. Softmax is often used for output layers. Steve Nouri Q60 What Are Hyperparameters? With neural networks, you're usually working with hyperparameters once the data is formatted correctly. A hyperparameter is a parameter whose value is set before the learning process begins. It determines how a network is trained and the structure of the network (such as the number of hidden units, the learning rate, epochs, etc.). Q61 What Will Happen If the Learning Rate Is Set Too Low or Too High? When your learning rate is too low, training of the model will progress very slowly as we are making minimal updates to the weights. It will take many updates before reaching the minimum point. If the learning rate is set too high, this causes undesirable divergent behavior to the loss function due to drastic updates in weights. It may fail to converge (model can give a good output) or even diverge (data is too chaotic for the network to train). Q62 How Are Weights Initialized in a Network? There are two methods here: we can either initialize the weights to zero or assign them randomly. Initializing all weights to 0: This makes your model similar to a linear model.