If you are having 4GB RAM in your machine and you want to train your model on 10GB data set. How would you go about this problem? Have you ever faced this kind of problem in your machine learning/data science experience so far? First of all, you have to ask which ML model you want to train. For Neural networks: Batch size with Numpy array will work. Steps: 1. Load the whole data in the Numpy array. Numpy array has a property to create a mapping of the complete data set, it doesn't load complete data set in memory. 2. You can pass an index to Numpy array to get required data. 3. Use this data to pass to the Neural network. 4. Have a small batch size. For SVM: Partial fit will work. Steps: 1. Divide one big data set in small size data sets. 2. Use a partial fit method of SVM, it requires a subset of the complete data set. 3. Repeat step 2 for other subsets. However, you could actually face such an issue in reality. So, you could check out the best laptop for Machine Learning to prevent that. Having said that, let's move on to some questions on deep learning. Deep Learning Q1. What do you mean by Deep Learning? Deep Learning is nothing but a paradigm of machine learning which has shown incredible promise in recent years. This is because of the fact that Deep Learning shows a great analogy with the functioning of the neurons in the human brain. Q2. What is the difference between machine learning and deep learning? Machine learning is a field of computer science that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning can be categorized in the following four categories. 1. Supervised machine learning, 2. Semi-supervised machine learning, 3. Unsupervised machine learning, 4. Reinforcement learning. Deep Learning is a subfield of machine learning concerned with algorithms inspired by the structure and function of the brain called artificial neural networks. • The main difference between deep learning and machine learning is due to the way data is presented in the system. Machine learning algorithms almost always require structured data, while deep learning networks rely on layers of ANN (artificial neural networks). • Machine learning algorithms are designed to "learn" to act by understanding labeled data and then use it to produce new results with more datasets. However, when the result is incorrect, there is a need to "teach them". Because machine learning algorithms require bulleted data, they are not suitable for solving complex queries that involve a huge amount of data. • Deep learning networks do not require human intervention, as multilevel layers in neural networks place data in a hierarchy of different concepts, which ultimately learn from their own mistakes. However, even they can be wrong if the data quality is not good enough. • Data decides everything. It is the quality of the data that ultimately determines the quality of the result. • Both of these subsets of AI are somehow connected to data, which makes it possible to represent a certain form of "intelligence." However, you should be aware that deep learning requires much more data than a traditional machine learning algorithm. The reason for this is that deep learning networks can identify different elements in neural network layers only when more than a million data points interact. Machine learning algorithms, on the other hand, are capable of learning by pre-programmed criteria. Q3. What, in your opinion, is the reason for the popularity of Deep Learning in recent times? Now although Deep Learning has been around for many years, the major breakthroughs from these techniques came just in recent years. This is because of two main reasons: • The increase in the amount of data generated through various sources • The growth in hardware resources required to run these models GPUs are multiple times faster and they help us build bigger and deeper deep learning models in comparatively less time than we required previously. Q4. What is reinforcement learning? Reinforcement Learning allows to take actions to max cumulative reward. It learns by trial and error through reward/penalty system. Environment rewards agent so by time agent makes better decisions. Ex: robot=agent, maze=environment. Used for complex tasks (self-driving cars, game AI). RL is a series of time steps in a Markov Decision Process: 1. Environment: space in which RL operates 2. State: data related to past action RL took 3. Action: action taken 4.