To classify a new object based on attributes, each tree gives a classification. The forest chooses the classification having the most votes (Over all the trees in the forest) and in case of regression, it takes the average of outputs by different trees. Q27. How Do You Work Towards a Random Forest? The underlying principle of this technique is that several weak learners combined to provide a keen learner. Here is how such a system is trained for some number of trees T: 1. Sample N cases at random with replacement to create a subset of the data. The subset should be about 66% of the total set. 2. At each node: a. For some number m (see below), m predictor variables are selected at random from all the predictor variables. b. The predictor variable that provides the best split, according to some objective function, is used to do a binary split on that node. c. At the next node, choose another m variables at random from all predictor variables and do the same. Depending upon the value of m, there are three slightly different systems: • Random splitter selection: = = 1 • Breiman's bagger: = = total number of predictor variables (@) • Random forest: = ≪ number of predictor variables. o Brieman suggests three possible values for =: W@, W@, 2W@ When a new input is entered into the system, it is run down all of the trees. The result may either be an average or weighted average of all of the terminal nodes that are reached, or, in the case of categorical variables, a voting majority. Note that: Ø With a large number of predictors (@ ≫0), the eligible predictor set (=) will be quite different from node to node. Ø The greater the inter-tree correlation, the greater the random forest error rate, so one pressure on the model is to have the trees as uncorrelated as possible. Ø As m goes down, both inter-tree correlation and the strength of individual trees go down. So some optimal value of m must be discovered. Ø Strengths: Random forest runtimes are quite fast, and they are able to deal with unbalanced and missing data. Ø Weaknesses: Random Forest used for regression cannot predict beyond the range in the training data, and that they may over-fit data sets that are particularly noisy. Of course, the best test of any algorithm is how well it works upon your own data set. Q28. What cross-validation technique would you use on a time series data set? Instead of using k-fold cross-validation, you should be aware of the fact that a time series is not randomly distributed data - It is inherently ordered by chronological order. In case of time series data, you should use techniques like forward=chaining - Where you will be model on past data then look at forward-facing data. fold 1: training[1], test[2] fold 2: training[1 2], test[3] fold 3: training[1 2 3], test[4] fold 4: training[1 2 3 4], test[5] Q29. What is a Box-Cox Transformation? The dependent variable for a regression analysis might not satisfy one or more assumptions of an ordinary least squares regression. The residuals could either curve as the prediction increases or follow the skewed distribution. In such scenarios, it is necessary to transform the response variable so that the data meets the required assumptions. A Box-Cox transformation is a statistical technique to transform non-normal dependent variables into a normal shape. If the given data is not normal then most of the statistical techniques assume normality. Applying a Box-Cox transformation means that you can run a broader number of tests. A Box-Cox transformation is a way to transform non-normal dependent variables into a normal shape. Normality is an important assumption for many statistical techniques, if your data isn't normal, applying a Box-Cox means that you are able to run a broader number of tests. The Box-Cox transformation is named after statisticians George Box and Sir David Roxbee Cox who collaborated on a 1964 paper and developed the technique. Q30. How Regularly Must an Algorithm be Updated? You will want to update an algorithm when: • You want the model to evolve as data streams through infrastructure • The underlying data source is changing • There is a case of non-stationarity (mean, variance change over the time) • The algorithm underperforms/results lack accuracy Q31.