The key aspects or principle behind DevOps is: • Infrastructure as a Code • Continuous Integration • Continuous Deployment • Automation • Continuous Monitoring • Security Q4) List out some of the popular tools for DevOps? • Git • Jenkins • Ansible • Puppet • Nagios • Docker • ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) Q5) what is a version control system? Version Control System (VCS) is a software that helps software developers to work together and maintain a complete history of their work. Some of the feature of VCS as follows: • Allow developers to wok simultaneously • Does not allow overwriting on each other changes. • Maintain the history of every version. There are two types of Version Control Systems: 1. Central Version Control System, Ex: Git, Bitbucket 2. Distributed/Decentralized Version Control System, Ex: SVN Q6) What is Git and explain the difference between Git and SVN? Git is a source code management (SCM) tool which handles small as well as large projects with efficiency. It is basically used to store our repositories in remote server such as GitHub. GIT SVN Git is a Decentralized Version Control Tool SVN is a Centralized Version Control Tool Git contains the local repo as well as the full history of the whole project on all the SVN relies only on the central server to store developers hard drive, so if there is a server outage , you can easily do recovery from your team mates local git repo. all the versions of the project file Push and pull operations are fast Push and pull operations are slower compared to Git It belongs to 3rd generation Version Control Tool It belongs to 2nd generation Version Control tools Client nodes can share the entire repositories on their local system Version history is stored on server-side repository Commits can be done offline too Commits can be done only online Work are shared automatically by commit Nothing is shared automatically Q7) what language is used in Git? Git is written in C language, and since its written in C language its very fast and reduces the overhead of runtimes. Q8) what is SubGit? SubGit is a tool for migrating SVN to Git. It creates a writable Git mirror of a local or remote Subversion repository and uses both Subversion and Git if you like. Q9) how can you clone a Git repository via Jenkins? First, we must enter the e-mail and user name for your Jenkins system, then switch into your job directory and execute the "git config" command. Q10)What are the Advantages of Ansible? • Agentless, it doesn't require any extra package/daemons to be installed • Very low overhead • Good performance • Idempotent • Very Easy to learn • Declarative not procedural Q11) what's the use of Ansible? Ansible is mainly used in IT infrastructure to manage or deploy applications to remote nodes. Let's say we want to deploy one application in 100's of nodes by just executing one command, then Ansible is the one actually coming into the picture but should have some knowledge on Ansible script to understand or execute the same. Q12) what's the difference between Ansible Playbook and Roles? Roles Playbooks Roles are reusable subsets of a play. Playbooks contain Plays. A set of tasks for accomplishing certain role. Mapps among hosts and roles. Example: common, webservers. Example: site.yml, fooservers.yml, webservers.yml. Q13) How do I see a list of all the ansible_ variables? Ansible by default gathers "facts" about the machines, and these facts can be accessed in Playbooks and in templates. To see a list of all the facts that are available about a machine, you can run the "setup" module as an ad-hoc action: Ansible -m setup hostname This will print out a dictionary of all the facts that are available for that particular host. Q14) what is Docker? Docker is a containerization technology that packages your application and all its dependencies together in the form of Containers to ensure that your application works seamlessly in any environment. Q15) what is Docker image? Docker image is the source of Docker container. Or in other words, Docker images are used to create containers. Q16) what is Docker Container? Docker Container is the running instance of Docker Image. Q17) Can we consider DevOps as Agile methodology? Of Course, we can!