This is a question best explained with a real-life example. Consider that you want to go out today to play a cricket match with your friends. Now, a number of factors can affect your decision- making, like: ● How many of your friends can make it to the game? ● How much equipment can all of you bring? ● What is the temperature outside? And so on. These factors can change your decision greatly or not too much. For example, if it is raining outside, then you cannot go out to play at all. Or if you have only one bat, you can share it while playing as well. The magnitude by which these factors can affect the game is called the weight of that factor. Factors like the weather or temperature might have a higher weight, and other factors like equipment would have a lower weight. Q74 Why does a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) work better with image data? The key to this question lies in the Convolution operation. Unlike humans, the machine sees the image as a matrix of pixel values. Instead of interpreting a shape like a petal or an ear, it just identifies curves and edges. Thus, instead of looking at the entire image, it helps to just read the image in parts. Doing this for a 300 x 300-pixel image would mean dividing the matrix into smaller 3 x 3 matrices and dealing with them one by one. This is convolution. Q75 Why do RNNs work better with text data? The main component that differentiates Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) from the other models is the addition of a loop at each node. This loop brings the recurrence mechanism in RNNs. In a basic Artificial Neural Network (ANN), each input is given the same weight and fed to the network at the same time. So, for a sentence like "I saw the movie and hated it", it would be difficult to capture the information which associates "it" with the "movie". Q76 In a CNN, if the input size 5 X 5 and the filter size is 7 X 7, then what would be the size of the output? This is a pretty intuitive answer. As we saw above, we perform the convolution on 'x' one step at a time, to the right, and in the end, we got Z with dimensions 2 X 2, for X with dimensions 3 X 3. Thus, to make the input size similar to the filter size, we make use of padding - adding 0s to the input matrix such that its new size becomes at least 7 X 7. Thus, the output size would be using the formula: Dimension of image = (n, n) = 5 X 5 Dimension of filter = (f,f) = 7 X 7 Padding = 1 (adding 1 pixel with value 0 all around the edges) Dimension of output will be (n+2p-f+1) X (n+2p-f+1) = 1 X 1 Steve Nouri Q77 What's the difference between valid and same padding in a CNN? This question has more chances of being a follow-up question to the previous one. Or if you have explained how you used CNNs in a computer vision task, the interviewer might ask this question along with the details of the padding parameters. ● Valid Padding: When we do not use any padding. The resultant matrix after convolution will have dimensions (n - f + 1) X (n - f + 1) ● Same padding: Adding padded elements all around the edges such that the output matrix will have the same dimensions as that of the input matrix Q78 What are the applications of transfer learning in Deep Learning? I am sure you would have a doubt as to why a relatively simple question was included in the Intermediate Level. The reason is the sheer volume of subsequent questions it can generate! The use of transfer learning has been one of the key milestones in deep learning. Training a large model on a huge dataset, and then using the final parameters on smaller simpler datasets has led to defining breakthroughs in the form of Pretrained Models. Be it Computer Vision or NLP, pretrained models have become the norm in research and in the industry. Some popular examples include BERT, ResNet, GPT-2, VGG-16, etc, and many more. Q79 Why is GRU faster as compared to LSTM? As you can see, the LSTM model can become quite complex.