Q61 What are unigrams, bigrams, trigrams, and n-grams in NLP? When we parse a sentence one word at a time, then it is called a unigram. The sentence parsed two words at a time is a bigram. When the sentence is parsed three words at a time, then it is a trigram. Similarly, n-gram refers to the parsing of n words at a time. Example: To understand unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams, you can refer to the below diagram: Q62 What are the steps involved in solving an NLP problem? Below are the steps involved in solving an NLP problem: 1. Gather the text from the available dataset or by web scraping Steve Nouri 2. Apply stemming and lemmatization for text cleaning 3. Apply feature engineering techniques 4. Embed using word2vec 5. Train the built model using neural networks or other Machine Learning techniques 6. Evaluate the model's performance 7. Make appropriate changes in the model 8. Deploy the model Q63. There have some various common elements of natural language processing. Those elements are very important for understanding NLP properly, can you please explain the same in details with an example? Answer: There have a lot of components normally using by natural language processing (NLP). Some of the major components are explained below: ● Extraction of Entity: It actually identifying and extracting some critical data from the available information which help to segmentation of provided sentence on identifying each entity. It can help in identifying one human that it's fictional or real, same kind of reality identification for any organization, events or any geographic location etc. ● The analysis in a syntactic way: it mainly helps for maintaining ordering properly of the available words. Q64 In the case of processing natural language, we normally mentioned one common terminology NLP and binding every language with the same terminology properly. Please explain in details about this NLP terminology with an example? Answer: This is the basic NLP Interview Questions asked in an interview. There have some several factors available in case of explaining natural language processing. Some of the key factors are given below: ● Vectors and Weights: Google Word vectors, length of TF-IDF, varieties documents, word vectors, TF-IDF. ● Structure of Text: Named Entities, tagging of part of speech, identifying the head of the sentence. ● Analysis of sentiment: Know about the features of sentiment, entities available for the sentiment, sentiment common dictionary. ● Classification of Text: Learning supervising, set off a train, set of validation in Dev, Set of define test, a feature of the individual text, LDA. ● Reading of Machine Language: Extraction of the possible entity, linking with an individual entity, DBpedia, some libraries like Pikes or FRED. Q65 Explain briefly about word2vec Word2Vec embeds words in a lower-dimensional vector space using a shallow neural network. The result is a set of word-vectors where vectors close together in vector space have similar meanings based on context, and word-vectors distant to each other have differing meanings. For example, apple and orange would be close together and apple and gravity would be relatively far. Steve Nouri There are two versions of this model based on skip-grams (SG) and continuous-bag-of-words (CBOW). Q66 What are the metrics used to test an NLP model? Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1. Accuracy is the usual ratio of the prediction to the desired output. But going just be accuracy is naive considering the complexities involved. Q67 What are some ways we can preprocess text input? Here are several preprocessing steps that are commonly used for NLP tasks: ● case normalization: we can convert all input to the same case (lowercase or uppercase) as a way of reducing our text to a more canonical form ● punctuation/stop word/white space/special characters removal: if we don't think these words or characters are relevant, we can remove them to reduce the feature space ● lemmatizing/stemming: we can also reduce words to their inflectional forms (i.e.