Steve Nouri If the generator starts producing the same output (or a small set of outputs) over and over again, the discriminator's best strategy is to learn to always reject that output. But if the next generation of discriminator gets stuck in a local minimum and doesn't find the best strategy, then it's too easy for the next generator iteration to find the most plausible output for the current discriminator. Each iteration of generator over-optimizes for a particular discriminator and the discriminator never manages to learn its way out of the trap. As a result, the generators rotate through a small set of output types. This form of GAN failure is called mode collapse. Q87 ExplainProgressive GANs In a progressive GAN, the generator's first layers produce very low resolution images, and subsequent layers add details. This technique allows the GAN to train more quickly than comparable non-progressive GANs, and produces higher resolution images. Q88 Explain Conditional GANs Conditional GANs train on a labeled data set and let you specify the label for each generated instance. For example, an unconditional MNIST GAN would produce random digits, while a conditional MNIST GAN would let you specify which digit the GAN should generate. Instead of modeling the joint probability P(X, Y), conditional GANs model the conditional probability P(X | Y). For more information about conditional GANs, see Mirza et al, 2014. Q89 Explain Image-to-Image Translation Image-to-Image translation GANs take an image as input and map it to a generated output image with different properties. For example, we can take a mask image with blob of color in the shape of a car, and the GAN can fill in the shape with photorealistic car details. Q90 Explain CycleGAN CycleGANs learn to transform images from one set into images that could plausibly belong to another set. For example, a CycleGAN produced the righthand image below when given the lefthand image as input. It took an image of a horse and turned it into an image of a zebra. Q91 What is Super-resolution? Super-resolution GANs increase the resolution of images, adding detail where necessary to fill in blurry areas. For example, the blurry middle image below is a downsampled version of the original image on the left. Given the blurry image, a GAN produced the sharper image on the right: Q92 Explain different problems in GANs Many GAN models suffer the following major problems: ● Non-convergence: the model parameters oscillate, destabilize and never converge, ● Mode collapse: the generator collapses which produces limited varieties of samples, Steve Nouri ● Diminished gradient: the discriminator gets too successful that the generator gradient vanishes and learns nothing, ● Unbalance between the generator and discriminator causing overfitting, & ● Highly sensitive to the hyperparameter selections. Q93 Describe Cost v.s. image quality in GANS? In a discriminative model, the loss measures the accuracy of the prediction and we use it to monitor the progress of the training. However, the loss in GAN measures how well we are doing compared with our opponent. Often, the generator cost increases but the image quality is actually improving. We fall back to examine the generated images manually to verify the progress. This makes model comparison harder which leads to difficulties in picking the best model in a single run. It also complicates the tuning process. Q94 Why Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is used in Computer Vision? The singular value decomposition is the most common and useful decomposition in computer vision. The goal of computer vision is to explain the three-dimensional world through two- dimensional pictures. Q95 What Is Image Transform? An image can be expanded in terms of a discrete set of basis arrays called basis images. Hence, these basis images can be generated by unitary matrices. An NxN image can be viewed as an N^2×1 vector. It provides a set of coordinates or basis vectors for vector space. Q96 List The Hardware Oriented Color Models? They are as follows. - RGB model - CMY model - YIQ model - HSI model Q96 What Is The Need For Transform?