PEP stands for Python Enhancement Proposal. A PEP is an official design document providing information to the Python Community, or describing a new feature for Python or its processes. PEP 8 is especially important since it documents the style guidelines for Python Code. Apparently contributing in the Python open-source community requires you to follow these style guidelines sincerely and strictly. 67.What are decorators in Python? Decorators in Python are essentially functions that add functionality to an existing function in Python without changing the structure of the function itself. They are represented by the @decorator_name in Python and are called in bottom-up fashion 68.What is the key difference between lists and tuples in python? The key difference between the two is that while lists are mutable, tuples on the other hand are immutable objects. 69.What is self in Python? Self is a keyword in Python used to define an instance or an object of a class. In Python, it is explicitly used as the first parameter, unlike in Java where it is optional. It helps in distinguishing between the methods and attributes of a class from its local variables. 70.What is PYTHONPATH in Python? PYTHONPATH is an environment variable which you can set to add additional directories where Python will look for modules and packages. This is especially useful in maintaining Python libraries that you do not wish to install in the global default location. 71.What is the difference between .py and .pyc files? Follow Steve Nouri for more AI and Data science posts: .py files contain the source code of a program. Whereas, .pyc file contains the bytecode of your program. We get bytecode after compilation of .py file (source code). .pyc files are not created for all the files that you run. It is only created for the files that you import. 72.Explain how you can access a module written in Python from C? You can access a module written in Python from C by following method, Module = =PyImport_ImportModule("<modulename>"); 73.What is namespace in Python? In Python, every name introduced has a place where it lives and can be hooked for. This is known as namespace. It is like a box where a variable name is mapped to the object placed. Whenever the variable is searched out, this box will be searched, to get the corresponding object. 74.What is pickling and unpickling? Pickle module accepts any Python object and converts it into a string representation and dumps it into a file by using the dump function, this process is called pickling. While the process of retrieving original Python objects from the stored string representation is called unpickling. 75.How is Python interpreted? Python language is an interpreted language. The Python program runs directly from the source code. It converts the source code that is written by the programmer into an intermediate language, which is again translated into machine language that has to be executed. Jupyter Notebook 76.What is the main use of a Jupyter notebook? Jupyter Notebook is an open-source web application that allows us to create and share codes and documents. It provides an environment, where you can document your code, run it, look at the outcome, visualize data and see the results without leaving the environment. 77.How do I increase the cell width of the Jupyter/ipython notebook in my browser? >>> from IPython.core.display import display, HTML >>> display(HTML("<style>.container { width:100% !important; }</style>")) Follow Steve Nouri for more AI and Data science posts: 78.How do I convert an IPython Notebook into a Python file via command line? >>> jupyter nbconvert --to script [YOUR_NOTEBOOK].ipynb 79.How to measure execution time in a jupyter notebook? >>> %%time is inbuilt magic command 80.How to run a jupyter notebook from the command line? >>> jupyter nbconvert --to python nb.ipynb 81.How to make inline plots larger in jupyter notebooks? Use figure size.