References 1 springboard.com 2 simplilearn.com 3 geeksforgeeks.org 4 elitedatascience.com 5 analyticsvidhya.com 6 guru99.com 7 intellipaat.com 8 towardsdatascience.com 9 mygreatlearning.com 10 mindmajix.com 11 toptal.com 12 glassdoor.co.in 13 udacity.com 14 educba.com 15 analyticsindiamag.com 16 ubuntupit.com 17 javatpoint.com 18 quora.com 19 hackr.io 20 kaggle.com Steve Nouri Steve Nouri Top 100 NLP Questions Steve Nouri Q1. Which of the following techniques can be used for keyword normalization in NLP, the process of converting a keyword into its base form? a. Lemmatization b. Soundex c. Cosine Similarity d. N-grams Answer : a) Lemmatization helps to get to the base form of a word, e.g. are playing -> play, eating -> eat, etc.Other options are meant for different purposes. Q2. Which of the following techniques can be used to compute the distance between two word vectors in NLP? a. Lemmatization b. Euclidean distance c. Cosine Similarity d. N-grams Answer : b) and c) Distance between two word vectors can be computed using Cosine similarity and Euclidean Distance. Cosine Similarity establishes a cosine angle between the vector of two words. A cosine angle close to each other between two word vectors indicates the words are similar and vice a versa. E.g. cosine angle between two words "Football" and "Cricket" will be closer to 1 as compared to angle between the words "Football" and "New Delhi" Q3. What are the possible features of a text corpus in NLP? a. Count of the word in a document b. Vector notation of the word c. Part of Speech Tag d. Basic Dependency Grammar e. All of the above Answer : e)All of the above can be used as features of the text corpus. Q4. You created a document term matrix on the input data of 20K documents for a Machine learning model. Which of the following can be used to reduce the dimensions of data? Steve Nouri 1. Keyword Normalization 2. Latent Semantic Indexing 3. Latent Dirichlet Allocation a. only 1 b. 2, 3 c. 1, 3 d. 1, 2, 3 Answer : d) Q5. Which of the text parsing techniques can be used for noun phrase detection, verb phrase detection, subject detection, and object detection in NLP. a. Part of speech tagging b. Skip Gram and N-Gram extraction c. Continuous Bag of Words d. Dependency Parsing and Constituency Parsing Answer : d) Q6. Dissimilarity between words expressed using cosine similarity will have values significantly higher than 0.5 a. True b. False Answer : a) Q7. Which one of the following are keyword Normalization techniques in NLP a. Stemming b. Part of Speech c. Named entity recognition d. Lemmatization Answer : a) and d) Part of Speech (POS) and Named Entity Recognition(NER) are not keyword Normalization techniques. Named Entity help you extract Organization, Time, Date, City, etc.type of entities from the given sentence, whereas Part of Speech helps you extract Noun, Verb, Pronoun, adjective, etc.from the given sentence tokens. Q8. Which of the below are NLP use cases? a. Detecting objects from an image b. Facial Recognition c. Speech Biometric d. Text Summarization Steve Nouri Answer : (d) a) And b) are Computer Vision use cases, and c) is Speech use case. Only d) Text Summarization is an NLP use case. Q9. In a corpus of N documents, one randomly chosen document contains a total of T terms and the term "hello" appears K times. What is the correct value for the product of TF (term frequency) and IDF (inverse-document- frequency), if the term "hello" appears in approximately one-third of the total documents?