In order to still retain the functionality of retaining information across time and yet not make a too complex model, we need GRUs. Basically, in GRUs, instead of having an additional Forget gate, we combine the input and Forget gates into a single Update Gate: Q80 How is the transformer architecture better than RNN? Advancements in deep learning have made it possible to solve many tasks in Natural Language Processing. Networks/Sequence models like RNNs, LSTMs, etc. are specifically used for this purpose - so as to capture all possible information from a given sentence, or a paragraph. However, sequential processing comes with its caveats: ● It requires high processing power ● It is difficult to execute in parallel because of its sequential nature Q81 How Can We Scale GANs Beyond Image Synthesis? Aside from applications like image-to-image translation and domain-adaptation most GAN successes have been in image synthesis. Attempts to use GANs beyond images have focused on three domains: Text, Structured Data and Audio Q82 How Should we Evaluate GANs and When Should We Use Them? When it comes to evaluating GANs, there are many proposals but little consensus. Suggestions include: Steve Nouri ● Inception Score and FID - Both these scores use a pre-trained image classifier and both have known issues. A common criticism is that these scores measure 'sample quality' and don't really capture 'sample diversity'. ● MS-SSIM - propose using MS-SSIM to separately evaluate diversity, but this technique has some issues and hasn't really caught on. ● AIS - propose putting a Gaussian observation model on the outputs of a GAN and using annealed importance sampling to estimate the log-likelihood under this model, but show that estimates computed this way are inaccurate in the case where the GAN generator is also a flow model The generator being a flow model allows for the computation of exact log-likelihoods in this case. ● Geometry Score - suggest computing geometric properties of the generated data manifold and comparing those properties to the real data. ● Precision and Recall - attempt to measure both the 'precision' and 'recall' of GANs. ● Skill Rating - have shown that trained GAN discriminators can contain useful information with which evaluation can be performed. Q83 What should we use GANs for? If you want an actual density model, GANs probably isn't the best choice. There is now good experimental evidence that GANs learn a 'low support' representation of the target dataset, which means there may be substantial parts of the test set to which a GAN (implicitly) assigns zero likelihood. Q84 How should we evaluate GANs on these perceptual tasks? Ideally, we would just use a human judge, but this is expensive. A cheap proxy is to see if a classifier can distinguish between real and fake examples. This is called a classifier two-sample test (C2STs). The main issue with C2STs is that if the Generator has even a minor defect that's systematic across samples (e.g., ) this will dominate the evaluation. Q85 Explain the problem of Vanishing Gradients in GANs Research has suggested that if your discriminator is too good, then generator training can fail due to vanishing gradients. In effect, an optimal discriminator doesn't provide enough information for the generator to make progress. Attempts to Remedy ● Wasserstein loss: The Wasserstein loss is designed to prevent vanishing gradients even when you train the discriminator to optimality. ● Modified minimax loss: The original GAN paper proposed a modification to minimax loss to deal with vanishing gradients. Q86 What is Mode Collapse and why it is a big issue? Usually, you want your GAN to produce a wide variety of outputs. You want, for example, a different face for every random input to your face generator. However, if a generator produces an especially plausible output, the generator may learn to produce only that output. In fact, the generator is always trying to find the one output that seems most plausible to the discriminator.