It will begin at the leaf nodes There is a popular pruning algorithm called reduced error pruning, in which: ● Starting at the leaves, each node is replaced with its most popular class ● If the prediction accuracy is not affected, the change is kept ● There is an advantage of simplicity and speed Steve Nouri Q38 What Is a Recommendation System? Anyone who has used Spotify or shopped at Amazon will recognize a recommendation system: It's an information filtering system that predicts what a user might want to hear or see based on choice patterns provided by the user. Q39 What Is Kernel SVM? Kernel SVM is the abbreviated version of the kernel support vector machine. Kernel methods are a class of algorithms for pattern analysis, and the most common one is the kernel SVM. Q40 What Are Some Methods of Reducing Dimensionality? You can reduce dimensionality by combining features with feature engineering, removing collinear features, or using algorithmic dimensionality reduction. Now that you have gone through these machine learning interview questions, you must have got an idea of your strengths and weaknesses in this domain. Q41 What Are the Three Stages of Building a Model in Machine Learning? The three stages of building a machine learning model are: ● Model Building Choose a suitable algorithm for the model and train it according to the requirement ● Model Testing Check the accuracy of the model through the test data ● Applying the Mode Make the required changes after testing and use the final model for real-time projects. Here, it's important to remember that once in a while, the model needs to be checked to make sure it's working correctly. It should be modified to make sure that it is up-to-date. Q42 How is KNN different from k-means clustering? K-Nearest Neighbors is a supervised classification algorithm, while k-means clustering is an unsupervised clustering algorithm. While the mechanisms may seem similar at first, what this really means is that in order for K-Nearest Neighbors to work, you need labeled data you want to classify an unlabeled point into (thus the nearest neighbor part). K-means clustering requires only a set of unlabeled points and a threshold: the algorithm will take unlabeled points and gradually learn how to cluster them into groups by computing the mean of the distance between different points. Q43 Mention the difference between Data Mining and Machine learning? Machine learning relates to the study, design, and development of the algorithms that give computers the capability to learn without being explicitly programmed. While data mining can be defined as the process in which the unstructured data tries to extract knowledge or unknown interesting patterns. During this processing machine, learning algorithms are used. Steve Nouri Q44 What are the different Algorithm techniques in Machine Learning? The different types of techniques in Machine Learning are ● Supervised Learning ● Unsupervised Learning ● Semi-supervised Learning ● Reinforcement Learning ● Transduction ● Learning to Learn Q45 You are given a data set. The data set has missing values that spread along 1 standard deviation from the median. What percentage of data would remain unaffected? Why? This question has enough hints for you to start thinking! Since the data is spread across the median, let's assume it's a normal distribution. We know, in a normal distribution, ~68% of the data lies in 1 standard deviation from mean (or mode, median), which leaves ~32% of the data unaffected. Therefore, ~32% of the data would remain unaffected by missing values. Q46 What are PCA, KPCA, and ICA used for? PCA (Principal Components Analysis), KPCA ( Kernel-based Principal Component Analysis) and ICA ( Independent Component Analysis) are important feature extraction techniques used for dimensionality reduction. Q47 What are support vector machines? Support vector machines are supervised learning algorithms used for classification and regression analysis. Q48 What is batch statistical learning? Statistical learning techniques allow learning a function or predictor from a set of observed data that can make predictions about unseen or future data. These techniques provide guarantees on the performance of the learned predictor on the future unseen data based on a statistical assumption on the data generating process. Q49 What is the bias-variance decomposition of classification error in the ensemble method? The expected error of a learning algorithm can be decomposed into bias and variance. A bias term measures how closely the average classifier produced by the learning algorithm matches the target function.