It helps you to reduce networking costs. Q41 What is a redshift? Redshift is a big data warehouse product. It is fast and powerful, fully managed data warehouse service in the cloud. Q42 What are the advantages of auto-scaling? Following are the advantages of autoscaling ● Offers fault tolerance ● Better availability ● Better cost management Q43 What is meant by subnet? A large section of IP Address divided into chunks is known as subnets. Q44 Can you establish a Peering connection to a VPC in a different region? Yes, we can establish a peering connection to a VPC in a different region. It is called inter-region VPC peering connection. Q45 What is SQS? Simple Queue Service also known as SQS. It is distributed queuing service which acts as a mediator for two controllers. Q46 How many subnets can you have per VPC? You can have 200 subnets per VPC. Q47 What is Amazon EMR? EMR is a survived cluster stage which helps you to interpret the working of data structures before the intimation. Apache Hadoop and Apache Spark on the Amazon Web Services helps you to investigate a large amount of data. You can prepare data for the analytics goals and marketing intellect workloads using Apache Hive and using other relevant open source designs. Q48 What is boot time taken for the instance stored backed AMI? The boot time for an Amazon instance store-backend AMI is less than 5 minutes. Q49 Do you need an internet gateway to use peering connections? Yes, the Internet gateway is needed to use VPC (virtual private cloud peering) connections. Q50 How to connect EBS volume to multiple instances? Steve Nouri We can't be able to connect EBS volume to multiple instances. Although, you can connect various EBS Volumes to a single instance. Q51 List different types of cloud services Various types of cloud services are: ● Software as a Service (SaaS), ● Data as a Service (DaaS) ● Platform as a Service (PaaS) ● Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Q52 What are the different types of Load Balancer in AWS services? Two types of Load balancer are: 1. Application Load Balancer 2. Classic Load Balancer Q53 In which situation you will select provisioned IOPS over standard RDS storage? You should select provisioned IOPS storage over standard RDS storage if you want to perform batch-related workloads. Q54 What are the important features of Amazon cloud search? Important features of the Amazon cloud are: ● Boolean searches ● Prefix Searches ● Range searches ● Entire text search ● AutoComplete advice Q55 What are the various components of the Google Cloud Platform? Google Cloud Platform (GCP) is composed of a set of elements that helps people in different ways. The various GCP elements are ● Google Compute Engine ● Google Cloud Container Engine ● Google Cloud App Engine ● Google Cloud Storage ● Google Cloud Dataflow ● Google BigQuery Service ● Google Cloud Job Discovery ● Google Cloud Endpoints ● Google Cloud Test Lab ● Google Cloud Machine Learning Engine Steve Nouri Q56 What are the main advantages of using Google Cloud Platform? Google Cloud Platform is a medium that provides its users access to the best cloud services and features. It is gaining popularity among the cloud professionals as well as users for the advantages if offer. Here are the main advantages of using Google Cloud Platform over others - ● GCP offers much better pricing deals as compared to the other cloud service providers ● Google Cloud servers allow you to work from anywhere to have access to your information and data. ● Considering hosting cloud services, GCP has an overall increased performance and service ● Google Cloud is very fast in providing updates about server and security in a better and more efficient manner ● The security level of Google Cloud Platform is exemplary; the cloud platform and networks are secured and encrypted with various security measures. If you are going for the Google Cloud interview, you should prepare yourself with enough knowledge of Google Cloud Platform. The advantages of GCP is among frequently asked Google Cloud interview questions, so you need to be prepared to answer it. Q57 Why should you opt to Google Cloud Hosting? Answer: The reason for opting Google Cloud Hosting is the advantages it offers.