Steve Nouri Q24 Which Services Are Provided By Window Azure Operating System? Windows Azure provides three core services which are given as follows: • Compute • Storage • Management Q25 What Are The Advantages Of Cloud Services? Some of the advantages of cloud service are given as follows: • Helps in the utilization of investment in the corporate sector; and therefore, is cost saving. • Helps in the developing scalable and robust applications. Previously, the scaling took months, but now, scaling takes less time. • Helps in saving time in terms of deployment and maintenance. Q26 Mention The Basic Components Of A Server Computer In Cloud Computing? The components used in less expensive client computers matches with the hardware components of server computer in cloud computing. Although server computers are usually built from higher-grade components than client computers. Basic components include Motherboard, Memory, Processor, Network connection, Hard drives, Video, Power supply etc. Q27 Explain what S3 is? S3 stands for Simple Storage Service. You can use S3 interface to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time and from anywhere on the web. For S3, the payment model is "pay as you go." Q28 What is AMI? AMI stands for Amazon Machine Image. It's a template that provides the information (an operating system, an application server, and applications) required to launch an instance, which is a copy of the AMI running as a virtual server in the cloud. You can launch instances from as many different AMIs as you need. Q29 Mention what the relationship between an instance and AMI is? From a single AMI, you can launch multiple types of instances. An instance type defines the hardware of the host computer used for your instance. Each instance type provides different computer and memory capabilities. Once you launch an instance, it looks like a traditional host, and we can interact with it as we would with any computer. Q30 How many buckets can you create in AWS by default? By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts. Steve Nouri Q31 Explain can you vertically scale an Amazon instance? How? Yes, you can vertically scale on Amazon instance. For that ● Spin up a new larger instance than the one you are currently running ● Pause that instance and detach the root webs volume from the server and discard ● Then stop your live instance and detach its root volume ● Note the unique device ID and attach that root volume to your new server ● And start it again Q32 Explain what T2 instances is? T2 instances are designed to provide moderate baseline performance and the capability to burst to higher performance as required by the workload. Q33 In VPC with private and public subnets, database servers should ideally be launched into which subnet? With private and public subnets in VPC, database servers should ideally launch into private subnets. Q34 Mention what the security best practices for Amazon EC2 are? For secure Amazon EC2 best practices, follow the following steps ● Use AWS identity and access management to control access to your AWS resources ● Restrict access by allowing only trusted hosts or networks to access ports on your instance ● Review the rules in your security groups regularly ● Only open up permissions that you require ● Disable password-based login, for example, launched from your AMI Q35 Is the property of broadcast or multicast supported by Amazon VPC? No, currently Amazon VPI not provide support for broadcast or multicast. Q36 How many Elastic IPs is allows you to create by AWS? 5 VPC Elastic IP addresses are allowed for each AWS account. Q37 Explain default storage class in S3 The default storage class is a Standard frequently accessed. Q38 What are the Roles in AWS? Roles are used to provide permissions to entities which you can trust within your AWS account. Roles are very similar to users. However, with roles, you do not require to create any username and password to work with the resources. Q39 What are the edge locations? Edge location is the area where the contents will be cached. So, when a user is trying to accessing any content, the content will automatically be searched in the edge location. Steve Nouri Q40 Explain snowball Snowball is a data transport option. It used source appliances to a large amount of data into and out of AWS. With the help of snowball, you can transfer a massive amount of data from one place to another.