Move-in the opposite direction of the slope increase from the current point by the computed amount So, the idea is to pass the training set through the hidden layers of the neural network and then update the parameters of the layers by computing the gradients using the training samples from the training dataset. Think of it like this. Suppose a man is at top of the valley and he wants to get to the bottom of the valley. So, he goes down the slope. He decides his next position based on his current position and stops when he gets to the bottom of the valley which was his goal. Q18. What is exploding gradients? While training an RNN, if you see exponentially growing (very large) error gradients which accumulate and result in very large updates to neural network model weights during training, they're known as exploding gradients. At an extreme, the values of weights can become so large as to overflow and result in NaN values. The explosion occurs through exponential growth by repeatedly multiplying gradients through the network layers that have values larger than 1.0. This has the effect of your model is unstable and unable to learn from your training data. There are some subtle signs that you may be suffering from exploding gradients during the training of your network, such as: • The model is unable to get traction on your training data (e.g. poor loss). • The model is unstable, resulting in large changes in loss from update to update. • The model loss goes to NaN during training. • The model weights quickly become very large during training. • The error gradient values are consistently above 1.0 for each node and layer during training. Solutions 1. Re-Design the Network Model: a. In deep neural networks, exploding gradients may be addressed by redesigning the network to have fewer layers. There may also be some benefit in using a smaller batch size while training the network. b. In RNNs, updating across fewer prior time steps during training, called truncated Backpropagation through time, may reduce the exploding gradient problem. 2. Use Long Short-Term Memory Networks: In RNNs, exploding gradients can be reduced by using the Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) memory units and perhaps related gated-type neuron structures. Adopting LSTM memory units is a new best practice for recurrent neural networks for sequence prediction. 3. Use Gradient Clipping: Exploding gradients can still occur in very deep Multilayer Perceptron networks with a large batch size and LSTMs with very long input sequence lengths. If exploding gradients are still occurring, you can check for and limit the size of gradients during the training of your network. This is called gradient clipping. Specifically, the values of the error gradient are checked against a threshold value and clipped or set to that threshold value if the error gradient exceeds the threshold. 4. Use Weight Regularization: another approach, if exploding gradients are still occurring, is to check the size of network weights and apply a penalty to the networks loss function for large weight values. This is called weight regularization and often an L1 (absolute weights) or an L2 (squared weights) penalty can be used. Q19. What is vanishing gradients? While training an RNN, your slope can become either too small; this makes the training difficult. When the slope is too small, the problem is known as a Vanishing Gradient. It leads to long training times, poor performance, and low accuracy. • Hyperbolic tangent and Sigmoid/Soft-max suffer vanishing gradient. • RNNs suffer vanishing gradient, LSTM no (so it is perfect to predict stock prices). In fact, the propagation of error through previous layers makes the gradient get smaller so the weights are not updated. Solutions 1. Choose RELU 2. Use LSTM (for RNNs) 3. Use ResNet (Residual Network) à after some layers, add x again: &(G) →⋯→&(G) + G 4. Multi-level hierarchy: pre-train one layer at the time through unsupervised learning, then fine- tune via backpropagation 5. Gradient checking: debugging strategy used to numerically track and assess gradients during training. Q20. What is Back Propagation and Explain it Works. Backpropagation is a training algorithm used for neural network. In this method, we update the weights of each layer from the last layer recursively, with the formula: F !