RNNs are a type of artificial neural networks designed to recognize the pattern from the sequence of data such as Time series, stock market and government agencies etc. Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) add an interesting twist to basic neural networks. A vanilla neural network takes in a fixed size vector as input which limits its usage in situations that involve a 'series' type input with no predetermined size. RNNs are designed to take a series of input with no predetermined limit on size. One could ask what's the big deal, I can call a regular NN repeatedly too? Sure can, but the 'series' part of the input means something. A single input item from the series is related to others and likely has an influence on its neighbors. Otherwise it's just "many" inputs, not a "series" input (duh!). Recurrent Neural Network remembers the past and its decisions are influenced by what it has learnt from the past. Note: Basic feed forward networks "remember" things too, but they remember things they learnt during training. For example, an image classifier learns what a "1" looks like during training and then uses that knowledge to classify things in production. While RNNs learn similarly while training, in addition, they remember things learnt from prior input(s) while generating output(s). RNNs can take one or more input vectors and produce one or more output vectors and the output(s) are influenced not just by weights applied on inputs like a regular NN, but also by a "hidden" state vector representing the context based on prior input(s)/output(s). So, the same input could produce a different output depending on previous inputs in the series. In summary, in a vanilla neural network, a fixed size input vector is transformed into a fixed size output vector. Such a network becomes "recurrent" when you repeatedly apply the transformations to a series of given input and produce a series of output vectors. There is no pre-set limitation to the size of the vector. And, in addition to generating the output which is a function of the input and hidden state, we update the hidden state itself based on the input and use it in processing the next input. Parameter Sharing You might have noticed another key difference between Figure 1 and Figure 3. In the earlier, multiple different weights are applied to the different parts of an input item generating a hidden layer neuron, which in turn is transformed using further weights to produce an output. There seems to be a lot of weights in play here. Whereas in Figure 3, we seem to be applying the same weights over and over again to different items in the input series. I am sure you are quick to point out that we are kind of comparing apples and oranges here. The first figure deals with "a" single input whereas the second figure represents multiple inputs from a series. But nevertheless, intuitively speaking, as the number of inputs increase, shouldn't the number of weights in play increase as well? Are we losing some versatility and depth in Figure 3? Perhaps we are. We are sharing parameters across inputs in Figure 3. If we don't share parameters across inputs, then it becomes like a vanilla neural network where each input node requires weights of their own. This introduces the constraint that the length of the input has to be fixed and that makes it impossible to leverage a series type input where the lengths differ and is not always known. But what we seemingly lose in value here, we gain back by introducing the "hidden state" that links one input to the next. The hidden state captures the relationship that neighbors might have with each other in a serial input and it keeps changing in every step, and thus effectively every input undergoes a different transition! Image classifying CNNs have become so successful because the 2D convolutions are an effective form of parameter sharing where each convolutional filter basically extracts the presence or absence of a feature in an image which is a function of not just one pixel but also of its surrounding neighbor pixels. In other words, the success of CNNs and RNNs can be attributed to the concept of "parameter sharing" which is fundamentally an effective way of leveraging the relationship between one input item and its surrounding neighbors in a more intrinsic fashion compared to a vanilla neural network.