Neighboring pixels have similar motion. Q40 What is Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)? HOG stands for Histograms of Oriented Gradients. HOG is a type of "feature descriptor". The intent of a feature descriptor is to generalize the object in such a way that the same object (in this case a person) produces as close as possible to the same feature descriptor when viewed under different conditions. This makes the classification task easier. Steve Nouri Q41 What is BOV: Bag-of-visual-words (BOV)? BOV also called the bag of keypoints, is based on vector quantization. Similar to HOG features, BOV features are histograms that count the number of occurrences of certain patterns within a patch of the image. Q42 What is Poselets? Where are poselets used? Poselets rely on manually added extra keypoints such as "right shoulder", "left shoulder", "right knee" and "left knee". They were originally used for human pose estimation Q43 Explain Textons in context of CNNs A texton is the minimal building block of vision. The computer vision literature does not give a strict definition for textons, but edge detectors could be one example. One might argue that deep learning techniques with Convolution Neuronal Networks (CNNs) learn textons in the first filters. Q44 What is Markov Random Fields (MRFs)? MRFs are undirected probabilistic graphical models which are a wide-spread model in computer vision. The overall idea of MRFs is to assign a random variable for each feature and a random variable for each pixel Q45 Explain the concept of superpixel? A superpixel is an image patch that is better aligned with intensity edges than a rectangular patch. Superpixels can be extracted with any segmentation algorithm, however, most of them produce highly irregular superpixels, with widely varying sizes and shapes. A more regular space tessellation may be desired. Q46 What is Non-maximum suppression(NMS) and where is it used? NMS is often used along with edge detection algorithms. The image is scanned along the image gradient direction, and if pixels are not part of the local maxima they are set to zero. It is widely used in object detection algorithms. Q47 Describe the use of Computer Vision in Healthcare. Computer vision has also been an important part of advances in health-tech. Computer vision algorithms can help automate tasks such as detecting cancerous moles in skin images or finding symptoms in x-ray and MRI scans. Q48 Describe the use of Computer Vision in Augmented Reality & Mixed Reality Computer vision also plays an important role in augmented and mixed reality, the technology that enables computing devices such as smartphones, tablets, and smart glasses to overlay and embed virtual objects on real-world imagery. Using computer vision, AR gear detects objects in the real world in order to determine the locations on a device's display to place a virtual object. For instance, computer vision algorithms can help AR applications detect planes such as Steve Nouri tabletops, walls, and floors, a very important part of establishing depth and dimensions and placing virtual objects in the physical world. Q49 Describe the use of Computer Vision in Facial Recognition Computer vision also plays an important role in facial recognition applications, the technology that enables computers to match images of people's faces to their identities. Computer vision algorithms detect facial features in images and compare them with databases of face profiles. Consumer devices use facial recognition to authenticate the identities of their owners. Social media apps use facial recognition to detect and tag users. Law enforcement agencies also rely on facial recognition technology to identify criminals in video feeds. Q50 Describe the use of Computer Vision in Self-Driving Cars Computer vision enables self-driving cars to make sense of their surroundings. Cameras capture video from different angles around the car and feed it to computer vision software, which then processes the images in real-time to find the extremities of roads, read traffic signs, detect other cars, objects, and pedestrians. The self-driving car can then steer its way on streets and highways, avoid hitting obstacles, and (hopefully) safely drive its passengers to their destination. Q51 Explain famous Computer Vision tasks using a single image example. Many popular computer vision applications involve trying to recognize things in photographs; for example: Object Classification: What broad category of object is in this photograph?