Q68 What do you mean by Associative Rule Mining (ARM)? Associative Rule Mining is one of the techniques to discover patterns in data like features (dimensions) which occur together and features (dimensions) which are correlated. Q69 What is Marginalisation? Explain the process. Marginalizationarginalisation is summing the probability of a random variable X given the joint probability distribution of X with other variables. It is an application of the law of total probability. Q70 Why is the rotation of components so important in Principle Component Analysis(PCA)? Rotation in PCA is very important as it maximizes the separation within the variance obtained by all the components because of which interpretation of components would become easier. If the components are not rotated, then we need extended components to describe the variance of the components. Steve Nouri Q71 What is the difference between regularization and normalisation? Normalisation adjusts the data; regularisation adjusts the prediction function. If your data is on very different scales (especially low to high), you would want to normalise the data. Alter each column to have compatible basic statistics. This can be helpful to make sure there is no loss of accuracy. One of the goals of model training is to identify the signal and ignore the noise if the model is given free rein to minimize error, there is a possibility of suffering from overfitting. Regularization imposes some control on this by providing simpler fitting functions over complex ones. Q72 When does the linear regression line stop rotating or finds an optimal spot where it is fitted on data? A place where the highest RSquared value is found, is the place where the line comes to rest. RSquared represents the amount of variance captured by the virtual linear regression line with respect to the total variance captured by the dataset. Q73 How does the SVM algorithm deal with self-learning? SVM has a learning rate and expansion rate which takes care of this. The learning rate compensates or penalises the hyperplanes for making all the wrong moves and expansion rate deals with finding the maximum separation area between classes. Q74 How do you handle outliers in the data? Outlier is an observation in the data set that is far away from other observations in the data set. We can discover outliers using tools and functions like box plot, scatter plot, Z-Score, IQR score etc. and then handle them based on the visualization we have got. To handle outliers, we can cap at some threshold, use transformations to reduce skewness of the data and remove outliers if they are anomalies or errors. Q75 Name and define techniques used to find similarities in the recommendation system. Pearson correlation and Cosine correlation are techniques used to find similarities in recommendation systems. Q76 Why would you Prune your tree? In the context of data science or AIML, pruning refers to the process of reducing redundant branches of a decision tree. Decision Trees are prone to overfitting, pruning the tree helps to reduce the size and minimizes the chances of overfitting. Pruning involves turning branches of a decision tree into leaf nodes and removing the leaf nodes from the original branch. It serves as a tool to perform the tradeoff. Steve Nouri Q77 Mention some of the EDA Techniques? Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) helps analysts to understand the data better and forms the foundation of better models. Visualization ● Univariate visualization ● Bivariate visualization ● Multivariate visualization Missing Value Treatment - Replace missing values with Either Mean/Median Outlier Detection - Use Boxplot to identify the distribution of Outliers, then Apply IQR to set the boundary for IQR Q78 What is data augmentation? Can you give some examples? Data augmentation is a technique for synthesizing new data by modifying existing data in such a way that the target is not changed, or it is changed in a known way. CV is one of the fields where data augmentation is very useful. There are many modifications that we can do to images: ● Resize ● Horizontal or vertical flip ● Rotate ● Add noise ● Deform ● Modify colors Each problem needs a customized data augmentation pipeline. For example, on OCR, doing flips will change the text and won't be beneficial; however, resizes and small rotations may help. Q79 What is Inductive Logic Programming in Machine Learning (ILP)?