a. KT * Log(3) b. T * Log(3) / K c. K * Log(3) / T d. Log(3) / KT Answer : (c) formula for TF is K/T formula for IDF is log(total docs / no of docs containing "data") = log(1 / (1⁄3)) = log (3) Hence correct choice is Klog(3)/T Q10. In NLP, The algorithm decreases the weight for commonly used words and increases the weight for words that are not used very much in a collection of documents a. Term Frequency (TF) b. Inverse Document Frequency (IDF) c. Word2Vec d. Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) Answer : b) Q11. In NLP, The process of removing words like "and", "is", "a", "an", "the" from a sentence is called as a. Stemming b. Lemmatization c. Stop word d. All of the above Answer : c) In Lemmatization, all the stop words such as a, an, the, etc. are removed. One can also define custom stop words for removal. Steve Nouri Q12. In NLP, The process of converting a sentence or paragraph into tokens is referred to as Stemming a. True b. False Answer : b) The statement describes the process of tokenization and not stemming, hence it is False. Q13. In NLP, Tokens are converted into numbers before giving to any Neural Network a. True b. False Answer : a) In NLP, all words are converted into a number before feeding to a Neural Network. Q14 Identify the odd one out a. nltk b. scikit learn c. SpaCy d. BERT Answer : d) All the ones mentioned are NLP libraries except BERT, which is a word embedding Q15 TF-IDF helps you to establish? a. most frequently occurring word in the document b. most important word in the document Answer : b) TF-IDF helps to establish how important a particular word is in the context of the document corpus. TF-IDF takes into account the number of times the word appears in the document and offset by the number of documents that appear in the corpus. ● TF is the frequency of term divided by a total number of terms in the document. ● IDF is obtained by dividing the total number of documents by the number of documents containing the term and then taking the logarithm of that quotient. Steve Nouri ● Tf.idf is then the multiplication of two values TF and IDF. Q16 In NLP, The process of identifying people, an organization from a given sentence, paragraph is called a. Stemming b. Lemmatization c. Stop word removal d. Named entity recognition Answer : d) Q17 Which one of the following is not a pre-processing technique in NLP a. Stemming and Lemmatization b. converting to lowercase c. removing punctuations d. removal of stop words e. Sentiment analysis Answer : e) Sentiment Analysis is not a pre-processing technique. It is done after pre-processing and is an NLP use case. All other listed ones are used as part of statement pre-processing. Q18 In text mining, converting text into tokens and then converting them into an integer or floating-point vectors can be done using a. CountVectorizer b. TF-IDF c. Bag of Words d. NERs Answer : a) CountVectorizer helps do the above, while others are not applicable. text =["Rahul is an avid writer, he enjoys studying understanding and presenting. He loves to play"] vectorizer = CountVectorizer() vectorizer.fit(text) vector = vectorizer.transform(text) Steve Nouri print(vector.toarray()) output [[1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1]] The second section of the interview questions covers advanced NLP techniques such as Word2Vec, GloVe word embeddings, and advanced models such as GPT, ELMo, BERT, XLNET based questions, and explanations. Q19. In NLP, Words represented as vectors are called as Neural Word Embeddings a. True b. False Answer : a) Word2Vec, GloVe based models build word embedding vectors that are multidimensional. Q20.