Q88 What is Windows Azure Diagnostics? Windows Azure Diagnostics enables you to collect diagnostic data from an application running in Windows Azure. You can use diagnostic data for debugging and troubleshooting, measuring performance, monitoring resource usage, traffic analysis and capacity planning, and auditing. Q89 What is the difference between Windows Azure Queues and Windows Azure Service Bus Queues? Windows Azure supports two types of queue mechanisms: Windows Azure Queues and Service Bus Queues. Windows Azure Queues, which are part of the Windows Azure storage infrastructure, feature a simple REST-based Get/Put/Peek interface, providing reliable, persistent messaging within and between services. Service Bus Queues are part of a broader Windows Azure messaging infrastructure dead-letters queuing as well as publish/subscribe, Web service remoting, and integration patterns. Q90 What is the use of Azure Active Directory? Azure Active Directory is an identify and access management system. It is very much similar to the active directories. It allows you to grant your employee in accessing specific products and services within the network. Steve Nouri Q91 Is it possible to create a Virtual Machine using Azure Resource Manager in a Virtual Network that was created using classic deployment? This is not supported. You cannot use Azure Resource Manager to deploy a virtual machine into a virtual network that was created using classic deployment. Q92 What are virtual machine scale sets in Azure? Explanation: Virtual machine scale sets are Azure compute resource that you can use to deploy and manage a set of identical VMs. With all the VMs configured the same, scale sets are designed to support true autoscale, and no pre-provisioning of VMs is required. So it's easier to build large-scale services that target big compute, big data, and containerized workloads. Q93 Are data disks supported within scale sets? Explanation: Yes. A scale set can define an attached data disk configuration that applies to all VMs in the set. Other options for storing data include: ● Azure files (SMB shared drives) ● OS drive ● Temp drive (local, not backed by Azure Storage) ● Azure data service (for example, Azure tables, Azure blobs) ● External data service (for example, remote database) Q95 What is the difference between the Windows Azure Platform and Windows Azure? The former is Microsoft's PaaS offering including Windows Azure, SQL Azure, and AppFabric; while the latter is part of the offering and Microsoft's cloud OS. Q96 What are the three main components of the Windows Azure Platform? Compute, Storage and AppFabric. Q97 Can you move a resource from one group to another? Yes, you can. A resource can be moved among resource groups. Q98 How many resource groups a subscription can have? A subscription can have up to 800 resource groups. Also, a resource group can have up to 800 resources of the same type and up to 15 tags. Q99 Explain the fault domain. Answer: This is one of the common Azure interview questions which should be answered that it is a logical working domain in which the underlying hardware is sharing a common power source and switch network. This means that when VMs is created the Azure distributes the VM across the fault domain that limits the potential impact of hardware failure, power interruption or outages of the network. Q100 Differentiate between the repository and the powerhouse server? Answer: Repository servers are those which are in lieu of the integrity, consistency, and uniformity whereas the powerhouse server governs the integration of different aspects of the database repository. Steve Nouri 800+ Data Science Q&A Orgnized by Steve Nouri Septemeber 2021 AI4Diversity