Q290) List out the tools helpful for docker networking Docker swarm and Kubernetes are the tools helpful for docker networking. Q291) Provide the difference between git pull and git fetch If there are any changes or commits done in the central repository branch, Git pull command performs a pull of those changes and update the local repository targeted branch. Git fetch is little similar to git pull but has a slight difference. When using the git fetch command, all the new commits are pulled from the desired branch and those get stored in the new branch of your local repository. You can make use of git merge once git fetch is done to see the changes in your target branch. Once the merging is done between fetched branch and target branch, the target branch gets updated. Just remember the equation "git merge + git fetch = git pull". Q292) Explain Git stash drop To remove the stashed items, use the Git command "stash drop". By default, it will remove eradicate the last added stash and also when a specific item is added as an argument, it will be removed. Q293) Provide few branching strategies Task Branching, Feature branching and Release branching are the three branching strategies. 1. Task Branching: Along with the task key comprised in the branch name, each task is employed on its own branch. 2. Feature branching: The whole changes for a feature is placed inside a branch. Once the feature branch is completely tested and evaluated using automated tests, a merge happens between the branch and master. 3. Release branching: When the develop branch has acquired enough features for a release, it is possible to clone that specific branch and form a release branch. Once the release branch is formed, we cannot add any new features and the next release cycle starts. Q294) Define Jenkins Jenkins, a continuous integration tool is an open source written in Java language. When we experience changes, tracking the version control system, initiating and monitoring a build system are some of the process carried out by Jenkins. On successful tracking and monitoring, notifications and reports are provided to alert the respective squad. Q295) Can you give me an example of simple Jenkins pipeline? Below is the best example of simple Jenkins pipeline: pipeline { agent any stages { stage('build') { steps { echo "Compiled Successfully! ! "; } } } Q296) Give me the procedure to create Jenkins jobs Let us have an example to create simple WelcomeGuys application. 1. Open the Jenkins dashboard and click on "New Item". 2. Now enter the item name, for example, WelcomeGuys. • Select "Freestyle project" and click "Ok" 1. You will get a different screen where you need to enter few more details of the job like project name, description, Advanced project options, source code management, branches to build, and repository browser. 2. Click "Save" to apply the changes made. 3. Click on Build Now option once the job details are saved. 4. When the build is scheduled, the build starts to run and the build history section indicates the progress of build. Q297) What are the points to check when an application is not coming up? Perform the following checks when an application is not coming up: 1. Validate all the file logs 2. Check whether the web server is receiving the user's request or not 3. Check the status of process id 4. Analyse the network connection Q298) What are the tasks performed by Puppet Slave and Puppet Master? The below image shows the task details performed by Puppet Slave and Puppet Master: Q299) What are pre-requisites to install and configure Puppet Master server on Linux? Both client node and master node must be accessible. Make sure you have internet access to both the nodes so that you can install packages from puppet labs repositories. Better to disable the firewalls if enabled just to avoid few issues at the time of configurations. Q300) In puppet, where you can find codedir? In windows, you can find in the location "%PROGRAMDATA%\PuppetLabs\code". In Linux/Unix, you can find in the location "/etc/puppetlabs/code". Q301) Define IaC IaC stands for Infrastructure as Code. This indicates the automation of IT operations like building, deploying, and managing with the help of code, instead of handling with manual process.