Random forests should not be used when dealing with time series data or any other data where look- ahead bias should be avoided, and the order and continuity of the samples need to be ensured. This algorithm can handle noise relatively well, but more knowledge from the user is required to adequately tune the algorithm compared to AdaBoost. The main advantages of XGBoost is its lightning speed compared to other algorithms, such as AdaBoost, and its regularization parameter that successfully reduces variance. But even aside from the regularization parameter, this algorithm leverages a learning rate (shrinkage) and subsamples from the features like random forests, which increases its ability to generalize even further. However, XGBoost is more difficult to understand, visualize and to tune compared to AdaBoost and random forests. There is a multitude of hyperparameters that can be tuned to increase performance. Q11. Explain Decision Tree algorithm in detail. cbc08589852d A decision tree is a supervised machine learning algorithm mainly used for Regression and Classification. It breaks down a data set into smaller and smaller subsets while at the same time an associated decision tree is incrementally developed. The final result is a tree with decision nodes and leaf nodes. A decision tree can handle both categorical and numerical data. The term Classification and Regression Tree (CART) analysis is an umbrella term used to refer to both of the above procedures. Some techniques, often called ensemble methods, construct more than one decision tree: • Boosted trees Incrementally building an ensemble by training each new instance to emphasize the training instances previously mis-modeled. A typical example is AdaBoost. These can be used for regression-type and classification-type problems. • Bootstrap aggregated (or bagged) decision trees, an early ensemble method, builds multiple decision trees by repeatedly resampling training data with replacement, and voting the trees for a consensus prediction. o A random forest classifier is a specific type of bootstrap aggregating. • Rotation forest - in which every decision tree is trained by first applying principal component analysis (PCA) on a random subset of the input features. A special case of a decision tree is a decision list, which is a one-sided decision tree, so that every internal node has exactly 1 leaf node and exactly 1 internal node as a child (except for the bottommost node, whose only child is a single leaf node). While less expressive, decision lists are arguably easier to understand than general decision trees due to their added sparsity, permit non-greedy learning methods and monotonic constraints to be imposed. Notable decision tree algorithms include: • ID3 (Iterative Dichotomiser 3) • C4.5 (successor of ID3) • CART (Classification and Regression Tree) • Chi-square automatic interaction detection (CHAID). Performs multi-level splits when computing classification trees. • MARS: extends decision trees to handle numerical data better. • Conditional Inference Trees. Statistics-based approach that uses non-parametric tests as splitting criteria, corrected for multiple testing to avoid overfitting. This approach results in unbiased predictor selection and does not require pruning. Q12. What are Entropy and Information gain in Decision tree algorithm? cbc08589852d There are a lot of algorithms which are employed to build a decision tree, ID3 (Iterative Dichotomiser 3), C4.5, C5.0, CART (Classification and Regression Trees) to name a few but at their core all of them tell us what questions to ask and when. The below table has color and diameter of a fruit and the label tells the name of the fruit. How do we build a decision tree to classify the fruits? Here is how we will build the tree. We will start with a node which will ask a true or false question to split the data into two. The two resulting nodes will each ask a true or false question again to split the data further and so on. There are 2 main things to consider with the above approach: • Which is the best question to ask at each node • When do we stop splitting the data further? Let's start building the tree with the first or the topmost node. There is a list of possible questions which can be asked. The first node can ask the following questions: • Is the color green? • Is the color yellow? • Is the color red? • Is the diameter ≥ 3? • Is the diameter ≥ 1?