● The next time an email is about to hit your inbox, the spam filter will use statistical analysis and algorithms like Decision Trees and SVM to determine how likely the email is spam ● If the likelihood is high, it will label it as spam, and the email won't hit your inbox Steve Nouri ● Based on the accuracy of each model, we will use the algorithm with the highest accuracy after testing all the models Q29 What evaluation approaches would you work to gauge the effectiveness of a machine learning model? You would first split the dataset into training and test sets, or perhaps use cross-validation techniques to further segment the dataset into composite sets of training and test sets within the data. You should then implement a choice selection of performance metrics: here is a fairly comprehensive list. You could use measures such as the F1 score, the accuracy, and the confusion matrix. What's important here is to demonstrate that you understand the nuances of how a model is measured and how to choose the right performance measures for the right situations. Q30 How would you implement a recommendation system for our company's users? A lot of machine learning interview questions of this type will involve the implementation of machine learning models to a company's problems. You'll have to research the company and its industry in-depth, especially the revenue drivers the company has, and the types of users the company takes on in the context of the industry it's in. Q31 Explain bagging. Bagging, or Bootstrap Aggregating, is an ensemble method in which the dataset is first divided into multiple subsets through resampling. Then, each subset is used to train a model, and the final predictions are made through voting or averaging the component models. Bagging is performed in parallel. Q32 What is the ROC Curve and what is AUC (a.k.a. AUROC)? The ROC (receiver operating characteristic) the performance plot for binary classifiers of True Positive Rate (y-axis) vs. False Positive Rate (x- axis). AUC is the area under the ROC curve, and it's a common performance metric for evaluating binary classification models. It's equivalent to the expected probability that a uniformly drawn random positive is ranked before a uniformly drawn random negative. Steve Nouri Q33 Why is Area Under ROC Curve (AUROC) better than raw accuracy as an out-of-sample evaluation metric? AUROC is robust to class imbalance, unlike raw accuracy. For example, if you want to detect a type of cancer that's prevalent in only 1% of the population, you can build a model that achieves 99% accuracy by simply classifying everyone has cancer-free. Q34 What are the advantages and disadvantages of neural networks? Advantages: Neural networks (specifically deep NNs) have led to performance breakthroughs for unstructured datasets such as images, audio, and video. Their incredible flexibility allows them to learn patterns that no other ML algorithm can learn. Disadvantages: However, they require a large amount of training data to converge. It's also difficult to pick the right architecture, and the internal "hidden" layers are incomprehensible. Q35 Define Precision and Recall. Precision ● Precision is the ratio of several events you can correctly recall to the total number of events you recall (mix of correct and wrong recalls). ● Precision = (True Positive) / (True Positive + False Positive) Recall ● A recall is the ratio of a number of events you can recall the number of total events. ● Recall = (True Positive) / (True Positive + False Negative) Q36 What Is Decision Tree Classification? A decision tree builds classification (or regression) models as a tree structure, with datasets broken up into ever-smaller subsets while developing the decision tree, literally in a tree-like way with branches and nodes. Decision trees can handle both categorical and numerical data. Q37 What Is Pruning in Decision Trees, and How Is It Done? Pruning is a technique in machine learning that reduces the size of decision trees. It reduces the complexity of the final classifier, and hence improves predictive accuracy by the reduction of overfitting. Pruning can occur in: ● Top-down fashion. It will traverse nodes and trim subtrees starting at the root ● Bottom-up fashion.