Logistic regression measures the relationship between the dependent variable (our label of what we want to predict) and one or more independent variables (our features) by estimating probability using its underlying logistic function (sigmoid). Miscellaneous Q1. Explain the steps in making a decision tree. 1. Take the entire data set as input 2. Calculate entropy of the target variable, as well as the predictor attributes 3. Calculate your information gain of all attributes (we gain information on sorting different objects from each other) 4. Choose the attribute with the highest information gain as the root node 5. Repeat the same procedure on every branch until the decision node of each branch is finalized For example, let's say you want to build a decision tree to decide whether you should accept or decline a job offer. The decision tree for this case is as shown: It is clear from the decision tree that an offer is accepted if: • Salary is greater than $50,000 • The commute is less than an hour • Coffee is offered Q2. How do you build a random forest model? A random forest is built up of a number of decision trees. If you split the data into different packages and make a decision tree in each of the different groups of data, the random forest brings all those trees together. Steps to build a random forest model: 1. Randomly select ; features from a total of = features where ; << = 2. Among the ; features, calculate the node D using the best split point 3. Split the node into daughter nodes using the best split 4. Repeat steps two and three until leaf nodes are finalized 5. Build forest by repeating steps one to four for > times to create > number of trees Q3. Differentiate between univariate, bivariate, and multivariate analysis. Univariate Univariate data contains only one variable. The purpose of the univariate analysis is to describe the data and find patterns that exist within it. Example: height of students Height (in cm) 164 167.3 170 174.2 178 180 The patterns can be studied by drawing conclusions using mean, median, mode, dispersion or range, minimum, maximum, etc. Bivariate Bivariate data involves two different variables. The analysis of this type of data deals with causes and relationships and the analysis is done to determine the relationship between the two variables. Example: temperature and ice cream sales in the summer season Temperature (in Celsius) Sales (in K $) 20 2.0 25 2.1 26 2.3 28 2.7 30 3.1 Here, the relationship is visible from the table that temperature and sales are directly proportional to each other. The hotter the temperature, the better the sales. Multivariate Multivariate data involves three or more variables, it is categorized under multivariate. It is similar to a bivariate but contains more than one dependent variable. Example: data for house price prediction The patterns can be studied by drawing conclusions using mean, median, and mode, dispersion or range, minimum, maximum, etc. You can start describing the data and using it to guess what the price of the house will be. Q4. What are the feature selection methods used to select the right variables? There are two main methods for feature selection. Filter Methods This involves: • Linear discrimination analysis • ANOVA • Chi-Square The best analogy for selecting features is "bad data in, bad answer out." When we're limiting or selecting the features, it's all about cleaning up the data coming in. Wrapper Methods This involves: • Forward Selection: We test one feature at a time and keep adding them until we get a good fit • Backward Selection: We test all the features and start removing them to see what works better • Recursive Feature Elimination: Recursively looks through all the different features and how they pair together Wrapper methods are very labor-intensive, and high-end computers are needed if a lot of data analysis is performed with the wrapper method. Q5. In your choice of language, write a program that prints the numbers ranging from one to 50. But for multiples of three, print "Fizz" instead of the number and for the multiples of five, print "Buzz." For numbers which are multiples of both three and five, print "FizzBuzz."