Describe the need for data storage and maintenance, development of developments and tracking errors easily. Do not forget to mention key CM tools that can be used to achieve these goals. Talk about how the tools, such as buffet, aseat, and chef are useful in automating software deployment and configuration on multiple servers. Q248) How is the chef used as a CM tool? Chef is considered one of the preferred professional CM Tools. Facebook has changed its infrastructure and the Shef platform keeps track of IT, for example. Explain how the chef helps to avoid delays by automating processes. The scripts are written in ruby. It can be integrated into cloud-based platforms and configures new settings. It provides many libraries for infrastructure development, which will then be installed in a software. Thanks to its centralized management system, a chef server is sufficient to use various policies as the center of ordering. Q249) How do you explain the concept of "Infrastructure Index" (IAC)? This is a good idea to talk about IAC as a concept, sometimes referred to as a programming program, where the infrastructure is similar to any other code. The traditional approach to managing infrastructure is how to take a back seat and how to handle manual structures, unusual tools and custom scripts Q250) List the essential DevOps tools. Git information Jenkins Selenium Puppet Chef Ansible Nagios Laborer Monit El-Elistorsch, Lestastash, Gibbon Collectd / Collect Git Information (Gitwidia) Q251) What are the main characters of DevOps engineers based on growth and infrastructure? DevOps Engineer's major work roles Application Development Developing code Code coverage Unit testing Packaging Preparing with infrastructure Continuous integration Continuous test Continuous sorting Provisioning Configuration Orchestration Deployment Q252) What are the advantages of DevOps regarding technical and business perspective? Technical Advantages: Software delivery continues. Problems reduce austerity. Fast approach to solving problems Humans are falling. Business Benefits: The higher the rate for its features Fixed operating systems It took too long to add values. Run fast time for the market Learn more about DevOps benefits from this information blog. Q253) Purpose for SSH? SSH is a secure shell that allows users to login to a secure, encrypted mechanism into computers and transmitting files. Exit the remote machine and work on the command line. Protect encrypted communications between the two hosts on an unsafe network. Q254) Which part of DevOps is implemented? Product development Creating product feedback and its development IT Activities Development Q255) List the DevOps's active algorithm. DevOps is a process Like the active DevOps. A separate group is configured. This will solve the problem. Manufacturers manufacturing production DevOps is a development-driven output management Q256) List the main difference between active and devOps. Agile: There is something about dynamic software development Devops: DevOps is about software deployment and management. DevOps does not replace the active or lean. By removing waste, by removing gloves and improving regulations, it allows the production of rapid and continuous products. Q257) For the popular scripting language of DevOps. Python Q258) How does DevOps help developers? Correct the error and activate new features quickly. It provides clarity of clarity between the members of the group. Q259) What are the speed and its benefits? Virtual box has been used as a hyper version for virtual environments and in the current scenario, it supports KVM. Kernel-based virtual machine Vegant is a tool for creating and managing the environment for making software and experiments. Q260) What is the use of Anuj? It is mainly used for information technology infrastructure to manage or use applications for remote applications. We want to sort an app on the nodes of 100 by executing one command, then the animation is actually in the picture, but you need to know or run some knowledge on the animated script. Q261) Provide a Deployment Use Cases in Kubernetes Deployment Use Cases in Kubernetes are given below: Use Case 1- Create a Deployment: On the creation of deployment, Pods are created automatically by ReplicaSet in the background. Use Case 2- Update Deployment: Creation of new ReplicaSet happens and now the deployment is updated. Deployment revisions are updated through these new ReplicaSet. Use Case 3- Rollback Deployment: If the current deployment state is not steady, rollback of deployment happens. But we can see the container images are updated. Use Case 4- Scale a Deployment: Based on the requirement, scaling up or scaling down can be performed on each and every deployment.