For each sample, we can compute its average. If we do that, we will have 1,000 averages. This set of 1,000 averages is called a sampling distribution, and according to Central Limit Theorem, the sampling distribution will approach a normal distribution as the sample size N used to produce it increases. Here is what our sample distribution looks like for N = 3. As we can see, it certainly looks uni-modal, though not necessarily normal. If we repeat the same process with a larger sample size, we should see the sampling distribution start to become more normal. Let's repeat the same process again with N = 10. Here is the sampling distribution for that sample size. Q2. What is sampling? How many sampling methods do you know? Data sampling is a statistical analysis technique used to select, manipulate and analyze a representative subset of data points to identify patterns and trends in the larger data set being examined. It enables data scientists, predictive modelers and other data analysts to work with a small, manageable amount of data about a statistical population to build and run analytical models more quickly, while still producing accurate findings. Sampling can be particularly useful with data sets that are too large to efficiently analyze in full - for example, in big data analytics applications or surveys. Identifying and analyzing a representative sample is more efficient and cost-effective than surveying the entirety of the data or population. An important consideration, though, is the size of the required data sample and the possibility of introducing a sampling error. In some cases, a small sample can reveal the most important information about a data set. In others, using a larger sample can increase the likelihood of accurately representing the data as a whole, even though the increased size of the sample may impede ease of manipulation and interpretation. There are many different methods for drawing samples from data; the ideal one depends on the data set and situation. Sampling can be based on probability, an approach that uses random numbers that correspond to points in the data set to ensure that there is no correlation between points chosen for the sample. Further variations in probability sampling include: • Simple random sampling: Software is used to randomly select subjects from the whole population. • Stratified sampling: Subsets of the data sets or population are created based on a common factor, and samples are randomly collected from each subgroup. A sample is drawn from each strata (using a random sampling method like simple random sampling or systematic sampling). o EX: In the image below, let's say you need a sample size of 6. Two members from each group (yellow, red, and blue) are selected randomly. Make sure to sample proportionally: In this simple example, 1/3 of each group (2/6 yellow, 2/6 red and 2/6 blue) has been sampled. If you have one group that's a different size, make sure to adjust your proportions. For example, if you had 9 yellow, 3 red and 3 blue, a 5-item sample would consist of 3/9 yellow (i.e. one third), 1/3 red and 1/3 blue. • Cluster sampling: The larger data set is divided into subsets (clusters) based on a defined factor, then a random sampling of clusters is analyzed. The sampling unit is the whole cluster; Instead of sampling individuals from within each group, a researcher will study whole clusters. o EX: In the image below, the strata are natural groupings by head color (yellow, red, blue). A sample size of 6 is needed, so two of the complete strata are selected randomly (in this example, groups 2 and 4 are chosen). • Multistage sampling: A more complicated form of cluster sampling, this method also involves dividing the larger population into a number of clusters. Second-stage clusters are then broken out based on a secondary factor, and those clusters are then sampled and analyzed. This staging could continue as multiple subsets are identified, clustered and analyzed. • Systematic sampling: A sample is created by setting an interval at which to extract data from the larger population - for example, selecting every 10th row in a spreadsheet of 200 items to create a sample size of 20 rows to analyze. Sampling can also be based on non-probability, an approach in which a data sample is determined and extracted based on the judgment of the analyst. As inclusion is determined by the analyst, it can be more difficult to extrapolate whether the sample accurately represents the larger population than when probability sampling is used.