Q57 What is the Variance Inflation Factor? Variance Inflation Factor (VIF) is the estimate of the volume of multicollinearity in a collection of many regression variables. VIF = Variance of the model / Variance of the model with a single independent variable We have to calculate this ratio for every independent variable. If VIF is high, then it shows the high collinearity of the independent variables. Q58 We know that one hot encoding increases the dimensionality of a dataset, but label encoding doesn't. How? When we use one-hot encoding, there is an increase in the dimensionality of a dataset. The reason for the increase in dimensionality is that, for every class in the categorical variables, it forms a different variable. Steve Nouri Q59 What is a Decision Tree? A decision tree is used to explain the sequence of actions that must be performed to get the desired output. It is a hierarchical diagram that shows the actions. Q60 What is the Binarizing of data? How to Binarize? In most of the Machine Learning Interviews, apart from theoretical questions, interviewers focus on the implementation part. So, this ML Interview Questions focused on the implementation of the theoretical concepts. Converting data into binary values on the basis of threshold values is known as the binarizing of data. The values that are less than the threshold are set to 0 and the values that are greater than the threshold are set to 1. This process is useful when we have to perform feature engineering, and we can also use it for adding unique features. Q61 What is cross-validation? Cross-validation is essentially a technique used to assess how well a model performs on a new independent dataset. The simplest example of cross-validation is when you split your data into two groups: training data and testing data, where you use the training data to build the model and the testing data to test the model. Q62 When would you use random forests Vs SVM and why? There are a couple of reasons why a random forest is a better choice of the model than a support vector machine: ● Random forests allow you to determine the feature importance. SVM's can't do this. ● Random forests are much quicker and simpler to build than an SVM. ● For multi-class classification problems, SVMs require a one-vs-rest method, which is less scalable and more memory intensive. Q63 What are the drawbacks of a linear model? There are a couple of drawbacks of a linear model: ● A linear model holds some strong assumptions that may not be true in the application. It assumes a linear relationship, multivariate normality, no or little multicollinearity, no auto-correlation, and homoscedasticity ● A linear model can't be used for discrete or binary outcomes. ● You can't vary the model flexibility of a linear model. Steve Nouri Q64 Do you think 50 small decision trees are better than a large one? Why? Another way of asking this question is "Is a random forest a better model than a decision tree?" And the answer is yes because a random forest is an ensemble method that takes many weak decision trees to make a strong learner. Random forests are more accurate, more robust, and less prone to overfitting. Q65 What is a kernel? Explain the kernel trick A kernel is a way of computing the dot product of two vectors x and y in some (possibly very high dimensional) feature space, which is why kernel functions are sometimes called "generalized dot product" The kernel trick is a method of using a linear classifier to solve a non-linear problem by transforming linearly inseparable data to linearly separable ones in a higher dimension. Q66 State the differences between causality and correlation? Causality applies to situations where one action, say X, causes an outcome, say Y, whereas Correlation is just relating one action (X) to another action(Y) but X does not necessarily cause Y. Q67 What is the exploding gradient problem while using the backpropagation technique? When large error gradients accumulate and result in large changes in the neural network weights during training, it is called the exploding gradient problem. The values of weights can become so large as to overflow and result in NaN values. This makes the model unstable and the learning of the model to stall just like the vanishing gradient problem.