• We can't do DevOps - We're Unique • We can't do DevOps - We're got the wrong people Q179) What are The Most Important Thing Devops Helps Us Achieve? The most important thing that the DevOps helps us achieve is to get the changes into production as quickly as possible while that minimizing risks in software quality assurance and compliance. This is the primary objective of DevOps. For example clear communication and better working relationships between teams i.e. both of the Ops team and Dev team collaborate together to deliver good quality software which in turn leads to higher customer satisfaction. Q180) How Can Make a Sure New Service Is Ready For The Products Launched? • Backup System • Recovery plans • Load Balancing • Monitoring • Centralized logging Are You Interested in DevOps Course ? Click here Q181) How to All These Tools Work for Together? • Given below is a generic logical of the flow where everything gets are automated for seamless delivery. However, its flow may vary from organization to the organization as per the requirement. • Developers develop the code and this source code is managed by Version Control System of the tools like Git etc. • Developers send to this code of the Git repository and any changes made in the code is committed to this Repository. • Jenkins pulls this code from the repository using the Git plugin and build it using tools like Ant or Maven. • Configuration managements tools like puppet deploys & provisions testing environment and then Jenkins releases this code on the test to environment on which testing is done using tools like selenium. • Once the code are tested, Jenkins send it for the deployment on production to the server (even production server are provisioned & maintained by tools like puppet). • After deployment Its continuously monitored by tools like Nagios. • Docker containers provides testing environment to the test the build features. Q182) Which Are The Top Devops Tools? The most popular DevOps tools are mentioned below • Git Version Control System tool • Jenkins Continuous Integration tool • Selenium Continuous Testing tool • Puppet, Chef, Ansible are Configuration Management and Deployment tools • Nagios Continuous Monitoring tool • Docker Containerization tool Q183) How to Devops Different From the Agile / Sdlc? Agile are the set of the values and principles about how to produce i.e. develop software. Example if you have some ideas and you want to the turn those ideas into the working software, you can use the Agile values are principles as a way to do that. But, that software might only be working on developer's laptop or in a test environment. You want a way to quickly, easily and repeatably move that software into the production infrastructure, in a safe and simple way. To do that you needs are DevOps tools and techniques. You can summarize by saying Agile of the software development methodology focuses on the development for software but DevOps on the other hand is responsible for the development as well as deployment of the software to the safest and most reliable way to the possible. Here's a blog that will give you more information of the evolutions of the DevOps. Q184) What Is The Need For Devops? According to me, this should start by explaining the general market trend. Instead of the releasing big sets of the features, companies are trying to see if small features can be transported to their customers through a series of the release trains. This have many advantages like quick feedback from the customers, better quality of the software etc. which in turn leads to the high customer satisfaction. To achieve this, companies are required to • Increase deployment frequency • Lower failure rate of new releases • Shortened lead time between fixes • Faster mean time to recovery of the event of new release crashing Q185) What is meant by Continuous Integration? It's the development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day. Each check-in then verified by an automated build, allowing teams to the detect problems early. Q186) Mention some of the useful plugins in Jenkins. Below, I have mentioned some important are Plugins: • Maven 2 project • Amazon EC2 • HTML publisher • Copy artifact • Join • Green Balls Q187) What is Version control? Its the system that records changes are the file or set of the files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. Q188) What are the uses of Version control ? Revert files back to a previous state. Revert to the entire project back to a previous state.