There are four layers in CNN: 1. Convolutional Layer - the layer that performs a convolutional operation, creating several smaller picture windows to go over the data. 2. Activation Layer (ReLU Layer) - it brings non-linearity to the network and converts all the negative pixels to zero. The output is a rectified feature map. It follows each convolutional layer. 3. Pooling Layer - pooling is a down-sampling operation that reduces the dimensionality of the feature map. Stride = how much you slide, and you get the max of the > G > matrix 4. Fully Connected Layer - this layer recognizes and classifies the objects in the image. Convolution Operation First Layer: 1. Input to a convolutional layer The image is resized to an optimal size and is fed as input to the convolutional layer. Let us consider the input as 32x32x3 array of pixel values. 2. There exists a filter or neuron or kernel which lays over some of the pixels of the input image depending on the dimensions of the Kernel size. Let the dimensions of the kernel of the filter be 5x5x3. 3. The Kernel actually slides over the input image; thus, it is multiplying the values in the filter with the original pixel values of the image (aka computing element-wise multiplications). The multiplications are summed up generating a single number for that particular receptive field and hence for sliding the kernel a total of 784 numbers are mapped to 28x28 array known as the feature map. **Now if we consider two kernels of the same dimension then the obtained first layer feature map will be (28x28x2). High-level Perspective • Let us take a kernel of size (7x7x3) for understanding. Each of the kernels is considered to be a feature identifier, hence say that our filter will be a curve detector. • The original image and the visualization of the kernel on the image. The sum of the multiplication value that is generated is = 4 ∗(50 ∗30) + (20 ∗30) = 6600 (large number). • Now when the kernel moves to the other part of the image. The sum of the multiplication value that is generated is = 0 (small number). The use of the small and the large value 1. The value is much lower! This is because there wasn't anything in the image section that responded to the curve detector filter. Remember, the output of this convolution layer is an activation map. So, in the simple case of a one filter convolution (and if that filter is a curve detector), the activation map will show the areas in which there at most likely to be curved in the picture. 2. In the previous example, the top-left value of our 26 x 26 x 1 activation map (26 because of the 7x7 filter instead of 5x5) will be 6600. This high value means that it is likely that there is some sort of curve in the input volume that caused the filter to activate. The top right value in our activation map will be 0 because there wasn't anything in the input volume that caused the filter to activate. This is just for one filter. 3. This is just a filter that is going to detect lines that curve outward and to the right. We can have other filters for lines that curve to the left or for straight edges. The more filters, the greater the depth of the activation map, and the more information we have about the input volume. In the picture, we can see some examples of actual visualizations of the filters of the first conv. layer of a trained network. Nonetheless, the main argument remains the same. The filters on the first layer convolve around the input image and "activate" (or compute high values) when the specific feature it is looking for is in the input volume. Sequential convolutional layers after the first one 1. When we go through another conv. layer, the output of the first conv. layer becomes the input of the 2nd conv. layer. 2. However, when we're talking about the 2nd conv. layer, the input is the activation map(s) that result from the first layer. So, each layer of the input is basically describing the locations in the original image for where certain low-level features appear. 3. Now when you apply a set of filters on top of that (pass it through the 2nd conv.