It allocates, partition, isolate or change with the program given as virtualization hypervisor. Hardware hypervisor allows having multiple guest Operating Systems running on a single host system at the same time. Q13 Define what MultiCloud is? Multicloud computing may be defined as the deliberate use of the same type of cloud services from multiple public cloud providers. Q14 What is a multi-cloud strategy? The way most organizations adopt the cloud is that they typically start with one provider. They then continue down that path and eventually begin to get a little concerned about being too dependent on one vendor. So they will start entertaining the use of another provider or at least allowing people to use another provider. They may even use a functionality-based approach. For example, they may use Amazon as their primary cloud infrastructure provider, but they may decide to use Google for analytics, machine learning, and big data. So this type of multi-cloud strategy is driven by sourcing or procurement (and perhaps on specific capabilities), but it doesn't focus on anything in terms of technology and architecture. Q15 What is meant by Edge Computing, and how is it related to the cloud? Unlike cloud computing, edge computing is all about the physical location and issues related to latency. Cloud and edge are complementary concepts combining the strengths of a centralized system with the advantages of distributed operations at the physical location where things and people connect. Disadvantages of SaaS cloud computing layer 1) Security Actually, data is stored in the cloud, so security may be an issue for some users. However, cloud computing is not more secure than in-house deployment. 2) Latency issue Since data and applications are stored in the cloud at a variable distance from the end-user, there is a possibility that there may be greater latency when interacting with the application compared to local deployment. Therefore, the SaaS model is not suitable for applications whose demand response time is in milliseconds. 3) Total Dependency on Internet Without an internet connection, most SaaS applications are not usable. 4) Switching between SaaS vendors is difficult Switching SaaS vendors involves the difficult and slow task of transferring the very large data files over the internet and then converting and importing them into another SaaS also. Steve Nouri Q16 What is IaaS in Cloud Computing? Ans: IaaS i.e. Infrastructure as a Service which is also known as Hardware as a Service .In this type of model, organizations usually gives their IT infrastructure such as servers, processing, storage, virtual machines and other resources. Customers can access the resources very easily on internet using on-demand pay model. Q17 Explain what is the use of "EUCALYPTUS" in cloud computing? Ans. EUCALYPTUS has an open source software infrastructure in cloud computing. It is used to add clusters in the cloud computing platform. With the help of EUCALYPTUS public, private, and hybrid cloud can be built. It can produce its own data centers. Moreover, it can allow you to use its functionality to many other organizations. Q18 When you add a software stack, like an operating system and applications to the service, the model shifts to 1 / 4 model. Software as a service. This is often because Microsoft's Windows Azure Platform is best represented as presently using a SaaS model. Q19 Name the foremost refined and restrictive service model? The most refined and restrictive service model is PaaS. Once the service requires the consumer to use an entire hardware/software/application stack, it is using the foremost refined and restrictive service model. Q20 To what is, a pay-as-you-go model matches resources to need on an ongoing basis. Utility. This eliminates waste and has the additional advantage of shifting risk from the consumer. Q21 You utilize the feature permits you to optimize your system and capture all possible transactions. Elasticity. You have the ability to modify the resources as required. Q22 Name all the kind of virtualization is also characteristic of cloud computing? Storage, Application, CPU. To modify these characteristics, resources should be extremely configurable and versatile. Q23 What Are Main Features Of Cloud Services? Some important features of the cloud service are given as follows: • Accessing and managing the commercial software. • Centralizing the activities of management of software in the Web environment. • Developing applications that are capable of managing several clients. • Centralizing the updating feature of software that eliminates the need of downloading the upgrades.