Split the dataset into k groups 3. For each unique group: a. Take the group as a hold out or test data set b. Take the remaining groups as a training data set c. Fit a model on the training set and evaluate it on the test set d. Retain the evaluation score and discard the model 4. Summarize the skill of the model using the sample of model evaluation scores There is an alternative in Scikit-Learn called Stratified k fold, in which the split is shuffled to make it sure you have a representative sample of each class and a k fold in which you may not have the assurance of it (not good with a very unbalanced dataset). Machine Learning Q1. What is Machine Learning? Machine learning is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience. It is seen as a subset of artificial intelligence. Machine Learning explores the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data. You select a model to train and then manually perform feature extraction. Used to devise complex models and algorithms that lend themselves to a prediction which in commercial use is known as predictive analytics. Q2. What is Supervised Learning? Supervised learning is the machine learning task of inferring a function from labeled training data. The training data consist of a set of training examples. Algorithms: Support Vector Machines, Regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Trees, K-nearest Neighbor Algorithm and Neural Networks E.g. If you built a fruit classifier, the labels will be "this is an orange, this is an apple and this is a banana", based on showing the classifier examples of apples, oranges and bananas. Q3. What is Unsupervised learning? Unsupervised learning is a type of machine learning algorithm used to draw inferences from datasets consisting of input data without labelled responses. Algorithms: Clustering, Anomaly Detection, Neural Networks and Latent Variable Models E.g. In the same example, a fruit clustering will categorize as "fruits with soft skin and lots of dimples", "fruits with shiny hard skin" and "elongated yellow fruits". Q4. What are the various algorithms? There are various algorithms. Here is a list. Q5. What is 'Naive' in a Naive Bayes? Naive Bayes methods are a set of supervised learning algorithms based on applying Bayes' theorem with the "naive" assumption of conditional independence between every pair of features given the value of the class variable. Bayes' theorem states the following relationship, given class variable y and dependent feature vector G through G : Using the naive conditional independence assumption that each G is independent: for all :, this relationship is simplified to: Since ,(G , . , G ) is constant given the input, we can use the following classification rule: and we can use Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) estimation to estimate ,(H) and ,(H|G ); the former is then the relative frequency of class H in the training set. The different naive Bayes classifiers differ mainly by the assumptions they make regarding the distribution of ,(H|G ): can be Bernoulli, Binomial, Gaussian, and so on. Q6. What is PCA? When do you use it? Principal component analysis (PCA) is a statistical method used in Machine Learning. It consists in projecting data in a higher dimensional space into a lower dimensional space by maximizing the variance of each dimension. The process works as following. We define a matrix A with > rows (the single observations of a dataset - in a tabular format, each single row) and @ columns, our features. For this matrix we construct a variable space with as many dimensions as there are features. Each feature represents one coordinate axis. For each feature, the length has been standardized according to a scaling criterion, normally by scaling to unit variance. It is determinant to scale the features to a common scale, otherwise the features with a greater magnitude will weigh more in determining the principal components. Once plotted all the observations and computed the mean of each variable, that mean will be represented by a point in the center of our plot (the center of gravity). Then, we subtract each observation with the mean, shifting the coordinate system with the center in the origin. The best fitting line resulting is the line that best accounts for the shape of the point swarm.