You can iterate over the rows of the DataFrame by using for loop in combination with an iterrows() call on the DataFrame. Python Language 51.What type of language is python? Programming or scripting? Python is capable of scripting, but in general sense, it is considered as a general-purpose programming language. 52.Is python case sensitive? Yes, python is a case sensitive language. 53.What is a lambda function in python? An anonymous function is known as a lambda function. This function can have any number of parameters but can have just one statement. 54.What is the difference between xrange and xrange in python? xrange and range are the exact same in terms of functionality.The only difference is that range returns a Python list object and x range returns an xrange object. 55.What are docstrings in python? Docstrings are not actually comments, but they are documentation strings. These docstrings are within triple quotes. They are not assigned to any variable and therefore, at times, serve the purpose of comments as well. 56.Whenever Python exits, why isn't all the memory deallocated? Whenever Python exits, especially those Python modules which are having circular references to other objects or the objects that are referenced from the global namespaces Follow Steve Nouri for more AI and Data science posts: are not always de-allocated or freed. It is impossible to de-allocate those portions of memory that are reserved by the C library. On exit, because of having its own efficient clean up mechanism, Python would try to de-allocate/destroy every other object. 57.What does this mean: *args, **kwargs? And why would we use it? We use *args when we aren't sure how many arguments are going to be passed to a function, or if we want to pass a stored list or tuple of arguments to a function. **kwargs is used when we don't know how many keyword arguments will be passed to a function, or it can be used to pass the values of a dictionary as keyword arguments. 58.What is the difference between deep and shallow copy? Shallow copy is used when a new instance type gets created and it keeps the values that are copied in the new instance. Shallow copy is used to copy the reference pointers just like it copies the values. Deep copy is used to store the values that are already copied. Deep copy doesn't copy the reference pointers to the objects. It makes the reference to an object and the new object that is pointed by some other object gets stored. 59.Define encapsulation in Python? Encapsulation means binding the code and the data together. A Python class in an example of encapsulation. 60.Does python make use of access specifiers? Python does not deprive access to an instance variable or function. Python lays down the concept of prefixing the name of the variable, function or method with a single or double underscore to imitate the behavior of protected and private access specifiers. 61.What are the generators in Python? Generators are a way of implementing iterators. A generator function is a normal function except that it contains yield expression in the function definition making it a generator function. 62.How will you remove the duplicate elements from the given list? The set is another type available in Python. It doesn't allow copies and provides some good functions to perform set operations like union, difference etc. >>> list(set(a)) 63.Does Python allow arguments Pass by Value or Pass by Reference? Follow Steve Nouri for more AI and Data science posts: Neither the arguments are Pass by Value nor does Python supports Pass by reference. Instead, they are Pass by assignment. The parameter which you pass is originally a reference to the object not the reference to a fixed memory location. But the reference is passed by value. Additionally, some data types like strings and tuples are immutable whereas others are mutable. 64.What is slicing in Python? Slicing in Python is a mechanism to select a range of items from Sequence types like strings, list, tuple, etc. 65.Why is the "pass" keyword used in Python? The "pass" keyword is a no-operation statement in Python. It signals that no action is required. It works as a placeholder in compound statements which are intentionally left blank. 66.What is PEP8 and why is it important?