All the neurons and every layer perform the same operation, giving the same output and making the deep net useless. Initializing all weights randomly: Here, the weights are assigned randomly by initializing them very close to 0. It gives better accuracy to the model since every neuron performs different computations. This is the most commonly used method. Q63 What Are the Different Layers on CNN? There are four layers in CNN: 1. Convolutional Layer - the layer that performs a convolutional operation, creating several smaller picture windows to go over the data. 2. ReLU Layer - it brings non-linearity to the network and converts all the negative pixels to zero. The output is a rectified feature map. 3. Pooling Layer - pooling is a down-sampling operation that reduces the dimensionality of the feature map. 4. Fully Connected Layer - this layer recognizes and classifies the objects in the image. Q64 What is Pooling on CNN, and How Does It Work? Pooling is used to reduce the spatial dimensions of a CNN. It performs down-sampling operations to reduce the dimensionality and creates a pooled feature map by sliding a filter matrix over the input matrix. Q65 How Does an LSTM Network Work? Long-Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is a special kind of recurrent neural network capable of learning long-term dependencies, remembering information for long periods as its default behavior. There are three steps in an LSTM network: Steve Nouri ● Step 1: The network decides what to forget and what to remember. ● Step 2: It selectively updates cell state values. ● Step 3: The network decides what part of the current state makes it to the output. Q66 What Is the Difference Between Epoch, Batch, and Iteration in Deep Learning? ● Epoch - Represents one iteration over the entire dataset (everything put into the training model). ● Batch - Refers to when we cannot pass the entire dataset into the neural network at once, so we divide the dataset into several batches. ● Iteration - if we have 10,000 images as data and a batch size of 200. then an epoch should run 50 iterations (10,000 divided by 50). Q67 Why Is Tensorflow the Most Preferred Library in Deep Learning? Tensorflow provides both C++ and Python APIs, making it easier to work on and has a faster compilation time compared to other Deep Learning libraries like Keras and Torch. Tensorflow supports both CPU and GPU computing devices. Q68 What Do You Mean by Tensor in Tensorflow? A tensor is a mathematical object represented as arrays of higher dimensions. These arrays of data with different dimensions and ranks fed as input to the neural network are called "Tensors." Q69 Explain a Computational Graph. Everything in TensorFlow is based on creating a computational graph. It has a network of nodes where each node operates, Nodes represent mathematical operations, and edges represent tensors. Since data flows in the form of a graph, it is also called a "DataFlow Graph." Q70 What Is an Auto-encoder? This Neural Network has three layers in which the input neurons are equal to the output neurons. The network's target outside is the same as the input. It uses dimensionality reduction to restructure the input. It works by compressing the image input to a latent space representation then reconstructing the output from this representation. Q71 Can we have the same bias for all neurons of a hidden layer? Essentially, you can have a different bias value at each layer or at each neuron as well. However, it is best if we have a bias matrix for all the neurons in the hidden layers as well. A point to note is that both these strategies would give you very different results. Q72 In a neural network, what if all the weights are initialized with the same value? In simplest terms, if all the neurons have the same value of weights, each hidden unit will get exactly the same signal. While this might work during forward propagation, the derivative of the cost function during backward propagation would be the same every time. Steve Nouri In short, there is no learning happening by the network! What do you call the phenomenon of the model being unable to learn any patterns from the data? Yes, underfitting. Therefore, if all weights have the same initial value, this would lead to underfitting. Q73 What is the role of weights and bias in a neural network?