Pragmatic Analysis: It deals with outside word knowledge, which means knowledge that is external to the documents and/or queries. Pragmatics analysis that focuses on what was described is reinterpreted by what it actually meant, deriving the various aspects of language that require real-world knowledge. Q53 What is perplexity in NLP? The word "perplexed" means "puzzled" or "confused", thus Perplexity in general means the inability to tackle something complicated and a problem that is not specified. Therefore, Perplexity in NLP is a way to determine the extent of uncertainty in predicting some text. In NLP, perplexity is a way of evaluating language models. Perplexity can be high and low; Low perplexity is ethical because the inability to deal with any complicated problem is less while high perplexity is terrible because the failure to deal with a complicated is high. Q54 What is ngram in NLP? N-gram in NLP is simply a sequence of n words, and we also conclude the sentences which appeared more frequently, for example, let us consider the progression of these three words: ● New York (2 gram) ● The Golden Compass (3 gram) ● She was there in the hotel (4 gram) Now from the above sequence, we can easily conclude that sentence (a) appeared more frequently than the other two sentences, and the last sentence(c) is not seen that often. Now if we assign probability in the occurrence of an n-gram, then it will be advantageous. It would help in making next-word predictions and in spelling error corrections. Q55 Explain differences between AI, Machine Learning and NLP Steve Nouri Q56 Why self-attention is awesome? "In terms of computational complexity, self-attention layers are faster than recurrent layers when the sequence length n is smaller than the representation dimensionality d, which is most often the case with sentence representations used by state-of-the-art models in machine translations, such as word-piece and byte-pair representations." - from Attention is all you need Q57 What are stop words? Stop words are said to be useless data for a search engine. Words such as articles, prepositions, etc. are considered as stop words. There are stop words such as was, were, is, am, the, a, an, how, why, and many more. In Natural Language Processing, we eliminate the stop words to understand and analyze the meaning of a sentence. The removal of stop words is one of the most important tasks for search engines. Engineers design the algorithms of search engines in such a way that they ignore the use of stop words. This helps show the relevant search result for a query. Q58 What is Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI)? Steve Nouri Latent semantic indexing is a mathematical technique used to improve the accuracy of the information retrieval process. The design of LSI algorithms allows machines to detect the hidden (latent) correlation between semantics (words). To enhance information understanding, machines generate various concepts that associate with the words of a sentence. The technique used for information understanding is called singular value decomposition. It is generally used to handle static and unstructured data. The matrix obtained for singular value decomposition contains rows for words and columns for documents. This method best suits to identify components and group them according to their types. The main principle behind LSI is that words carry a similar meaning when used in a similar context. Computational LSI models are slow in comparison to other models. However, they are good at contextual awareness that helps improve the analysis and understanding of a text or a document. Q60 What are Regular Expressions? A regular expression is used to match and tag words. It consists of a series of characters for matching strings. Suppose, if A and B are regular expressions, then the following are true for them: ● If {ɛ} is a regular language, then ɛ is a regular expression for it. ● If A and B are regular expressions, then A + B is also a regular expression within the language {A, B}. ● If A and B are regular expressions, then the concatenation of A and B (A.B) is a regular expression. ● If A is a regular expression, then A* (A occurring multiple times) is also a regular expression.