If the number of outlier values is few then they can be assessed individually but for a large number of outliers, the values can be substituted with either the 99th or the 1st percentile values. All extreme values are not outlier values. The most common ways to treat outlier values: 1. Change it with a mean or median 2. Standardize the feature, changing the distribution but smoothing the outliers 3. Log transform the feature (with many outliers) 4. Drop the value 5. First/third quartile value if more than 2M Q21. What are the various steps involved in an analytics project? The following are the various steps involved in an analytics project: 1. Understand the Business problem 2. Explore the data and become familiar with it 3. Prepare the data for modeling by detecting outliers, treating missing values, transforming variables, etc. 4. After data preparation, start running the model, analyze the result and tweak the approach. This is an iterative step until the best possible outcome is achieved. 5. Validate the model using a new data set. 6. Start implementing the model and track the result to analyze the performance of the model over the period of time. Q22. During analysis, how do you treat missing values? The extent of the missing values is identified after identifying the variables with missing values. If any patterns are identified the analyst has to concentrate on them as it could lead to interesting and meaningful business insights. If there are no patterns identified, then the missing values can be substituted with mean or median values (imputation) or they can simply be ignored. Assigning a default value which can be mean, minimum or maximum value. Getting into the data is important. If it is a categorical variable, the default value is assigned. The missing value is assigned a default value. If you have a distribution of data coming, for normal distribution give the mean value. If 80% of the values for a variable are missing, then you can answer that you would be dropping the variable instead of treating the missing values. Q23. How will you define the number of clusters in a clustering algorithm? Though the Clustering Algorithm is not specified, this question is mostly in reference to K-Means clustering where "K" defines the number of clusters. The objective of clustering is to group similar entities in a way that the entities within a group are similar to each other, but the groups are different from each other. For example, the following image shows three different groups. Within Sum of squares is generally used to explain the homogeneity within a cluster. If you plot WSS (as the sum of the squared distance between each member of the cluster and its centroid) for a range of number of clusters, you will get the plot shown below. • The Graph is generally known as Elbow Curve. • Red circled a point in above graph i.e. Number of Cluster = 3 is the point after which you don't see any decrement in WSS. • This point is known as the bending point and taken as K in K - Means. This is the widely used approach but few data scientists also use Hierarchical clustering first to create dendrograms and identify the distinct groups from there. The algorithm starts by finding the two points that are closest to each other on the basis of Euclidean distance. If we look back at Graph1, we can see that points 2 and 3 are closest to each other while points 7 and 8 are closes to each other. Therefore a cluster will be formed between these two points first. In Graph2, you can see that the dendograms have been created joining points 2 with 3, and 8 with 7. The vertical height of the dendogram shows the Euclidean distances between points. From Graph2, it can be seen that Euclidean distance between points 8 and 7 is greater than the distance between point 2 and 3. The next step is to join the cluster formed by joining two points to the next nearest cluster or point which in turn results in another cluster. If you look at Graph1, point 4 is closest to cluster of point 2 and 3, therefore in Graph2 dendrogram is generated by joining point 4 with dendrogram of point 2 and 3. This process continues until all the points are joined together to form one big cluster. Once one big cluster is formed, the longest vertical distance without any horizontal line passing through it is selected and a horizontal line is drawn through it.