• Deploy finished releases to production environments, such as Web servers or CD manufacturing. The above process will be done by Jenkins by creating the jobs. Q58) I have 50 jobs in the Jenkins dash board , I want to build at a time all the jobs In Jenkins there is a plugin called build after other projects build. We can provide job names over there and If one parent job run then it will automatically run the all other jobs. Or we can use Pipe line jobs. Q59) How can I integrate all the tools with Jenkins? I have to navigate to the manage Jenkins and then global tool configurations there you have to provide all the details such as Git URL , Java version, Maven version , Path etc. Q60) How to install Jenkins via Docker? The steps are: • Open up a terminal window. • Download the jenkinsci/blueocean image & run it as a container in Docker using the following docker run command:( • docker run \ -u root \ -rm \ -d \ -p 8080:8080 \ -p 50000:50000 \ -v jenkins- data:/var/jenkins_home \ -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \ jenkinsci/blueocean • Proceed to the Post-installation setup wizard ( wizard) • Accessing the Jenkins/Blue Ocean Docker container docker exec -it jenkins-blueocean bash • Accessing the Jenkins console log through Docker logsdocker logs <docker-container- name>Accessing the Jenkins home directorydocker exec -it <docker-container-name> bash Q61) Did you ever participated in Prod Deployments? If yes what is the procedure? Yes I have participated, we need to follow the following steps in my point of view • Preparation & Planning : What kind of system/technology was supposed to run on what kind of machine • The specifications regarding the clustering of systems • How all these stand-alone boxes were going to talk to each other in a foolproof manner • Production setup should be documented to bits. It needs to be neat, foolproof, and understandable. • It should have all a system configurations, IP addresses, system specifications, & installation instructions. • It needs to be updated as & when any change is made to the production environment of the system Q62) My application is not coming up for some reason? How can you bring it up? We need to follow the steps • Network connection • The Web Server is not receiving users's request • Checking the logs • Checking the process id's whether services are running or not • The Application Server is not receiving user's request(Check the Application Server Logs and Processes) • A network level 'connection reset' is happening somewhere. Q63) Did you automate anything in your project? Please explain Yes I have automated couple of things such as • Password expiry automation • Deleting the older log files • Code quality threshold violations etc. Q64) What is IaC? How you will achieve this? Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is the management of infrastructure (networks, virtual machines, load balancers, and connection topology) in a descriptive model, using the same versioning as DevOps team uses for source code. This will be achieved by using the tools such as Chef, Puppet and Ansible etc. Q65) What is multifactor authentication? What is the use of it? Multifactor authentication (MFA) is a security system that requires more than one method of authentication from independent categories of credentials to verify the user's identity for a login or other transaction. • Security for every enterprise user - end & privileged users, internal and external • Protect across enterprise resources - cloud & on-prem apps, VPNs, endpoints, servers, privilege elevation and more • Reduce cost & complexity with an integrated identity platform Q66) I want to copy the artifacts from one location to another location in cloud. How? Create two S3 buckets, one to use as the source, and the other to use as the destination and then create policies. Q67) How can I modify the commit message in git? I have to use following command and enter the required message. Git commit -amend Q68) How can you avoid the waiting time for the triggered jobs in Jenkins.