Non-probability data sampling methods include: • Convenience sampling: Data is collected from an easily accessible and available group. • Consecutive sampling: Data is collected from every subject that meets the criteria until the predetermined sample size is met. • Purposive or judgmental sampling: The researcher selects the data to sample based on predefined criteria. • Quota sampling: The researcher ensures equal representation within the sample for all subgroups in the data set or population (random sampling is not used). Once generated, a sample can be used for predictive analytics. For example, a retail business might use data sampling to uncover patterns about customer behavior and predictive modeling to create more effective sales strategies. Q3. What is the difference between type I vs type II error? Is Ha true? No, H0 is True (Ha is Negative: TN); Yes, H0 is False (Ha is Positive: TP). A type I error occurs when the null hypothesis is true but is rejected. A type II error occurs when the null hypothesis is false but erroneously fails to be rejected. No reject H0 Reject H0 H0 is True TN FP (I error) H0 is False FN (II error) TP Q4. What is linear regression? What do the terms p-value, coefficient, and r- squared value mean? What is the significance of each of these components? values-and-coefficients Imagine you want to predict the price of a house. That will depend on some factors, called independent variables, such as location, size, year of construction. if we assume there is a linear relationship between these variables and the price (our dependent variable), then our price is predicted by the following function: = 2 + 3 0 The p-value in the table is the minimum I (the significance level) at which the coefficient is relevant. The lower the p-value, the more important is the variable in predicting the price. Usually we set a 5% level, so that we have a 95% confidentiality that our variable is relevant. The p-value is used as an alternative to rejection points to provide the smallest level of significance at which the null hypothesis would be rejected. A smaller p-value means that there is stronger evidence in favor of the alternative hypothesis. The coefficient value signifies how much the mean of the dependent variable changes given a one-unit shift in the independent variable while holding other variables in the model constant. This property of holding the other variables constant is crucial because it allows you to assess the effect of each variable in isolation from the others. R squared (R2) is a statistical measure that represents the proportion of the variance for a dependent variable that's explained by an independent variable or variables in a regression model. Q5. What are the assumptions required for linear regression? There are four major assumptions: • There is a linear relationship between the dependent variables and the regressors, meaning the model you are creating actually fits the data, • The errors or residuals (H − HX ) of the data are normally distributed and independent from each other, • There is minimal multicollinearity between explanatory variables, and • Homoscedasticity. This means the variance around the regression line is the same for all values of the predictor variable. Q6. What is a statistical interaction? Basically, an interaction is when the effect of one factor (input variable) on the dependent variable (output variable) differs among levels of another factor. When two or more independent variables are involved in a research design, there is more to consider than simply the "main effect" of each of the independent variables (also termed "factors"). That is, the effect of one independent variable on the dependent variable of interest may not be the same at all levels of the other independent variable. Another way to put this is that the effect of one independent variable may depend on the level of the other independent variable. In order to find an interaction, you must have a factorial design, in which the two (or more) independent variables are "crossed" with one another so that there are observations at every combination of levels of the two independent variables. EX: stress level and practice to memorize words: together they may have a lower performance. Q7. What is selection bias? Selection (or 'sampling') bias occurs when the sample data that is gathered and prepared for modeling has characteristics that are not representative of the true, future population of cases the model will see.