Q21 Can you explain the differences between supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning? In supervised learning, we train a model to learn the relationship between input data and output data. We need to have labeled data to be able to do supervised learning. With unsupervised learning, we only have unlabeled data. The model learns a representation of the data. Unsupervised learning is frequently used to initialize the parameters of the model when we have a lot of unlabeled data and a small fraction of labeled data. We first train an unsupervised model and, after that, we use the weights of the model to train a supervised model. In reinforcement learning, the model has some input data and a reward depending on the output of the model. The model learns a policy that maximizes the reward. Reinforcement learning has been applied successfully to strategic games such as Go and even classic Atari video games. Q22 What is data augmentation? Can you give some examples? Data augmentation is a technique for synthesizing new data by modifying existing data in such a way that the target is not changed, or it is changed in a known way. Computer vision is one of the fields where data augmentation is very useful. There are many modifications that we can do to images: ● Resize ● Horizontal or vertical flip ● Rotate, Add noise, Deform ● Modify colors Each problem needs a customized data augmentation pipeline. For example, on OCR, doing flips will change the text and won't be beneficial; however, resizes and small rotations may help. Q23 What are the components of GAN? ● Generator ● Discriminator Q24 What's the difference between a generative and discriminative model? A generative model will learn categories of data while a discriminative model will simply learn the distinction between different categories of data. Discriminative models will generally outperform generative models on classification tasks. Steve Nouri Q25 What is Linear Filtering? Linear filtering is a neighborhood operation, which means that the output of a pixel's value is decided by the weighted sum of the values of the input pixels. Q26 How can you achieve Blurring through Gaussian Filter? This is the most common technique for blurring or smoothing an image. This filter improves the resulting pixel found at the center and slowly minimizes the effects as pixels move away from the center. This filter can also help in removing noise in an image Q27 What is Non-Linear Filtering? How it is used? Linear filtering is easy to use and implement. In some cases, this method is enough to get the necessary output. However, an increase in performance can be obtained through non-linear filtering. Through non-linear filtering, we can have more control and achieve better results when we encounter a more complex computer vision task. Q28 Explain Median Filtering. The median filter is an example of a non-linear filtering technique. This technique is commonly used for minimizing the noise in an image. It operates by inspecting the image pixel by pixel and taking the place of each pixel's value with the value of the neighboring pixel median. Some techniques in detecting and matching features are: ● Lucas-Kanade ● Harris ● Shi-Tomasi ● SUSAN (smallest uni value segment assimilating nucleus) ● MSER (maximally stable extremal regions) ● SIFT (scale-invariant feature transform) ● HOG (histogram of oriented gradients) ● FAST (features from accelerated segment test) ● SURF (speeded-up robust features) Q29 Describe the Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) algorithm SIFT solves the problem of detecting the corners of an object even if it is scaled. Steps to implement this algorithm: ● Scale-space extrema detection - This step will identify the locations and scales that can still be recognized from different angles or views of the same object in an image. ● Keypoint localization - When possible key points are located, they would be refined to get accurate results. This would result in the elimination of points that are low in contrast or points that have edges that are deficiently localized. ● Orientation assignment - In this step, a consistent orientation is assigned to each key point to attain invariance when the image is being rotated. ● Keypoint matching - In this step, the key points between images are now linked to recognizing their nearest neighbors.