The genetic programming model is based on testing and choosing the best option among a set of results. Q90 What do you know about Bayesian Networks? Bayesian Networks also referred to as 'belief networks' or 'casual networks', are used to represent the graphical model for probability relationship among a set of variables. For example, a Bayesian network can be used to represent the probabilistic relationships between diseases and symptoms. As per the symptoms, the network can also compute the probabilities of the presence of various diseases. Steve Nouri Efficient algorithms can perform inference or learning in Bayesian networks. Bayesian networks which relate the variables (e.g., speech signals or protein sequences) are called dynamic Bayesian networks. Q91 Which are the two components of the Bayesian logic program? A Bayesian logic program consists of two components: ● Logical It contains a set of Bayesian Clauses, which capture the qualitative structure of the domain. ● Quantitative It is used to encode quantitative information about the domain. Q92 How is machine learning used in day-to-day life? Most of the people are already using machine learning in their everyday life. Assume that you are engaging with the internet, you are actually expressing your preferences, likes, dislikes through your searches. All these things are picked up by cookies coming on your computer, from this, the behavior of a user is evaluated. It helps to increase the progress of a user through the internet and provide similar suggestions. The navigation system can also be considered as one of the examples where we are using machine learning to calculate a distance between two places using optimization techniques. Surely, people are going to more engage with machine learning in the near future Q93 Define Sampling. Why do we need it? Answer: Sampling is a process of choosing a subset from a target population that would serve as its representative. We use the data from the sample to understand the pattern in the community as a whole. Sampling is necessary because often, we can not gather or process the complete data within a reasonable time. Q94 What does the term decision boundary mean? Answer: A decision boundary or a decision surface is a hypersurface which divides the underlying feature space into two subspaces, one for each class. If the decision boundary is a hyperplane, then the classes are linearly separable. Q95 Define entropy? Answer: Entropy is the measure of uncertainty associated with random variable Y. It is the expected number of bits required to communicate the value of the variable. Q96 Indicate the top intents of machine learning? Answer: The top intents of machine learning are stated below, ● The system gets information from the already established computations to give well-founded decisions and outputs. ● It locates certain patterns in the data and then makes certain predictions on it to provide answers on matters. Steve Nouri Q97 Highlight the differences between the Generative model and the Discriminative model? The aim of the Generative model is to generate new samples from the same distribution and new data instances, Whereas, the Discriminative model highlights the differences between different kinds of data instances. It tries to learn directly from the data and then classifies the data. Q98 Identify the most important aptitudes of a machine learning engineer? Machine learning allows the computer to learn itself without being decidedly programmed. It helps the system to learn from experience and then improve from its mistakes. The intelligence system, which is based on machine learning, can learn from recorded data and past incidents. In-depth knowledge of statistics, probability, data modelling, programming language, as well as CS, Application of ML Libraries and algorithms, and software design is required to become a successful machine learning engineer. Q99 What is feature engineering? How do you apply it in the process of modelling? Feature engineering is the process of transforming raw data into features that better represent the underlying problem to the predictive models, resulting in improved model accuracy on unseen data. Q100 How can learning curves help create a better model? Learning curves give the indication of the presence of overfitting or underfitting. In a learning curve, the training error and cross-validating error are plotted against the number of training data points.