On the other hand, regular grammar is the generator of natural language, defining a set of defined rules and syntax which the strings in the natural language must follow. Q99 Why should we use Batch Normalization? Once the interviewer has asked you about the fundamentals of deep learning architectures, they would move on to the key topic of improving your deep learning model's performance. Batch Normalization is one of the techniques used for reducing the training time of our deep learning algorithm. Just like normalizing our input helps improve our logistic regression model, we can normalize the activations of the hidden layers in our deep learning model as well: Q100 How is backpropagation different in RNN compared to ANN? In Recurrent Neural Networks, we have an additional loop at each node: This loop essentially includes a time component into the network as well. This helps in capturing sequential information from the data, which could not be possible in a generic artificial neural network. This is why the backpropagation in RNN is called Backpropagation through Time, as in backpropagation at each time step. Steve Nouri Top 100 Questions on Computer Vision By Steve Nouri Q1 Which of the following is a challenge when dealing with computer vision problems? Variations due to geometric changes (like pose, scale, etc), Variations due to photometric factors (like illumination, appearance, etc) and Image occlusion. All the above-mentioned options are challenges in computer vision Q2 Consider an image with width and height as 100×100. Each pixel in the image can have a color from Grayscale, i.e. values. How much space would this image require for storing? The answer will be 8x100x100 because 8 bits will be required to represent a number from 0-256 Q3 Why do we use convolutions for images rather than just FC layers? Firstly, convolutions preserve, encode, and actually use the spatial information from the image. If we used only FC layers we would have no relative spatial information. Secondly, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have a partially built-in translation in-variance, since each convolution kernel acts as it's own filter/feature detector. Q4 What makes CNN's translation-invariant? As explained above, each convolution kernel acts as it's own filter/feature detector. So let's say you're doing object detection, it doesn't matter where in the image the object is since we're going to apply the convolution in a sliding window fashion across the entire image anyways. Q5 Why do we have max-pooling in classification CNNs? for a role in Computer Vision. Max-pooling in a CNN allows you to reduce computation since your feature maps are smaller after the pooling. You don't lose too much semantic information since you're taking the maximum activation. There's also a theory that max-pooling contributes a bit to giving CNN's more translation in-variance. Check out this great video from Andrew Ng on the benefits of max-pooling. Q6 Why do segmentation CNN's typically have an encoder-decoder style/structure? The encoder CNN can basically be thought of as a feature extraction network, while the decoder uses that information to predict the image segments by "decoding" the features and upscaling to the original image size. Steve Nouri Q7 What is the significance of Residual Networks? The main thing that residual connections did was allow for direct feature access from previous layers. This makes information propagation throughout the network much easier. One very interesting paper about this shows how using local skip connections gives the network a type of ensemble multi-path structure, giving features multiple paths to propagate throughout the network. Q8 What is batch normalization and why does it work? Training Deep Neural Networks is complicated by the fact that the distribution of each layer's inputs changes during training, as the parameters of the previous layers change. The idea is then to normalize the inputs of each layer in such a way that they have a mean output activation of zero and a standard deviation of one. This is done for each individual mini-batch at each layer i.e compute the mean and variance of that mini-batch alone, then normalize. This is analogous to how the inputs to networks are standardized. How does this help? We know that normalizing the inputs to a network helps it learn.