The result is the Information Gain or decrease in entropy. Step 3: Choose attribute with the largest information gain as the decision node, divide the dataset by its branches and repeat the same process on every branch. Step 4a: A branch with entropy of 0 is a leaf node. Step 4b: A branch with entropy more than 0 needs further splitting. Step 5: The ID3 algorithm is run recursively on the non-leaf branches, until all data is classified. Q13. What is pruning in Decision Tree? Pruning is a technique in machine learning and search algorithms that reduces the size of decision trees by removing sections of the tree that provide little power to classify instances. So, when we remove sub- nodes of a decision node, this process is called pruning or opposite process of splitting. Q14. What is logistic regression? State an example when you have used logistic regression recently. Logistic Regression often referred to as the logit model is a technique to predict the binary outcome from a linear combination of predictor variables. Since we are interested in a probability outcome, a line does not fit the model. Logistic Regression is a classification algorithm that works by trying to learn a function that approximates ,( |0). It makes the central assumption that ,(0| ) can be approximated as a sigmoid function applied to a linear combination of input features. For example, if you want to predict whether a particular political leader will win the election or not. In this case, the outcome of prediction is binary i.e. 0 or 1 (Win/Lose). The predictor variables here would be the amount of money spent for election campaigning of a particular candidate, the amount of time spent in campaigning, etc. Q15. What is Linear Regression? Linear regression is a statistical technique where the score of a variable Y is predicted from the score of a second variable X. X is referred to as the predictor variable and Y as the criterion variable. Q16. What Are the Drawbacks of the Linear Model? Some drawbacks of the linear model are: • The assumption of linearity of the model • It can't be used for count outcomes or binary outcomes. • There are overfitting or underfitting problems that it can't solve. Q17. What is the difference between Regression and classification ML techniques? Both Regression and classification machine learning techniques come under Supervised machine learning algorithms. In Supervised machine learning algorithm, we have to train the model using labelled data set, while training we have to explicitly provide the correct labels and algorithm tries to learn the pattern from input to output. If our labels are discrete values then it will a classification problem, but if our labels are continuous values then it will be a regression problem. Q18. What are Recommender Systems? Recommender Systems are a subclass of information filtering systems that are meant to predict the preferences or ratings that a user would give to a product. Recommender systems are widely used in movies, news, research articles, products, social tags, music, etc. Examples include movie recommenders in IMDB, Netflix & BookMyShow, product recommenders in e- commerce sites like Amazon, eBay & Flipkart, YouTube video recommendations and game recommendations in Xbox. Q19. What is Collaborative filtering? And a content based? The process of filtering used by most of the recommender systems to find patterns or information by collaborating viewpoints, various data sources and multiple agents. Collaborative filtering is a technique that can filter out items that a user might like on the basis of reactions by similar users. It works by searching a large group of people and finding a smaller set of users with tastes similar to a particular user. It looks at the items they like (usually based on rating) and combines them to create a ranked list of suggestions. Similar users are those with similar rating and on the based on that they get recommendations. In content based, we look only at the item level, recommending on similar items sold. An example of collaborative filtering can be to predict the rating of a particular user based on his/her ratings for other movies and others' ratings for all movies. This concept is widely used in recommending movies in IMDB, Netflix & BookMyShow, product recommenders in e-commerce sites like Amazon, eBay & Flipkart, YouTube video recommendations and game recommendations in Xbox. Q20. How can outlier values be treated? Outlier values can be identified by using univariate or any other graphical analysis method.