Text summarization intends to create a summary of any given piece of text and outlines the main points of the document. This technique has improved in recent times and is capable of summarizing volumes of text successfully. Text summarization has proved to a blessing since machines can summarise large volumes of text in no time which would otherwise be really time-consuming. There are two types of text summarization: ● Extraction-based summarization ● Abstraction-based summarization Q42. What is NLTK? How is it different from Spacy? NLTK or Natural Language Toolkit is a series of libraries and programs that are used for symbolic and statistical natural language processing. This toolkit contains some of the most powerful libraries that can work on different ML techniques to break down and understand human language. NLTK is used for Lemmatization, Punctuation, Character count, Tokenization, and Stemming. The difference between NLTK and Spacey are as follows: ● While NLTK has a collection of programs to choose from, Spacey contains only the best- suited algorithm for a problem in its toolkit ● NLTK supports a wider range of languages compared to Spacey (Spacey supports only 7 languages) ● While Spacey has an object-oriented library, NLTK has a string processing library ● Spacey can support word vectors while NLTK cannot Q43. What is information extraction? Information extraction in the context of Natural Language Processing refers to the technique of extracting structured information automatically from unstructured sources to ascribe meaning to it. This can include extracting information regarding attributes of entities, relationship between different entities and more. The various models of information extraction includes: ● Tagger Module ● Relation Extraction Module ● Fact Extraction Module ● Entity Extraction Module Steve Nouri ● Sentiment Analysis Module ● Network Graph Module ● Document Classification & Language Modeling Module Q44. What is Bag of Words? Bag of Words is a commonly used model that depends on word frequencies or occurrences to train a classifier. This model creates an occurrence matrix for documents or sentences irrespective of its grammatical structure or word order. Q45. What is Pragmatic Ambiguity in NLP? Pragmatic ambiguity refers to those words which have more than one meaning and their use in any sentence can depend entirely on the context. Pragmatic ambiguity can result in multiple interpretations of the same sentence. More often than not, we come across sentences which have words with multiple meanings, making the sentence open to interpretation. This multiple interpretation causes ambiguity and is known as Pragmatic ambiguity in NLP. Q46. What is a Masked Language Model? Masked language models help learners to understand deep representations in downstream tasks by taking an output from the corrupt input. This model is often used to predict the words to be used in a sentence. Q48. What are the best NLP Tools? Some of the best NLP tools from open sources are: ● SpaCy ● TextBlob ● Textacy ● Natural language Toolkit ● Retext ● NLP.js ● Stanford NLP ● CogcompNLP Q49. What is POS tagging? Parts of speech tagging better known as POS tagging refers to the process of identifying specific words in a document and group them as part of speech, based on its context. POS tagging is also known as grammatical tagging since it involves understanding grammatical structures and identifying the respective component. POS tagging is a complicated process since the same word can be different parts of speech depending on the context. The same generic process used for word mapping is quite ineffective for POS tagging because of the same reason. Q50. What is NES? Name entity recognition is more commonly known as NER is the process of identifying specific entities in a text document which are more informative and have a unique context. These often denote places, people, organisations, and more. Even though it seems like these entities are Steve Nouri proper nouns, the NER process is far from identifying just the nouns. In fact, NER involves entity chunking or extraction wherein entities are segmented to categorise them under different predefined classes. This step further helps in extracting information. Q51 Explain the Masked Language Model? Masked language modelling is the process in which the output is taken from the corrupted input. This model helps the learners to master the deep representations in downstream tasks. You can predict a word from the other words of the sentence using this model. Q52 What is pragmatic analysis in NLP?