Here are the advantages of choosing Google Cloud Hosting: ● Availability of better pricing plans ● Benefits of live migration of the machines ● Enhanced performance and execution ● Commitment to Constant development and expansion ● The private network provides efficiency and maximum time ● Strong control and security of the cloud platform ● Inbuilt redundant backups ensure data integrity and reliability The interviewer may ask this question to check your knowledge and explanation skills about Google Cloud. This type of questions are basically categorized under the Google Cloud consultant interview questions and may be asked in the Google Cloud interview. Q58 What are the libraries and tools for cloud storage on GCP? Answer: At the core level, XML API and JSON API are there for the cloud storage on Google Cloud Platform. But along with these, there are following options provided by Google to interact with the cloud storage. ● Google Cloud Platform Console, which performs basic operations on objects and buckets ● Cloud Storage Client Libraries, which provide programming support for various languages including Java, Ruby, and Python ● GustilCommand-line Tool, which provides a command line interface for the cloud storage Steve Nouri There are many third party libraries and tools such as Boto Library. This is the technical question that you may come across if you are going for the Google Cloud Engineer interview. You need to prepare yourself with the basic knowledge of GCP tools and libraries. Q59 What do you know about Google Compute Engine? Google Cloud Engine is the basic component of the Google Cloud Platform. So, it becomes a common question that lies under the Google Cloud Engineer interview questions as well as Google Cloud Architect interview questions. Google Compute Engine is an IaaS product that offers self-managed and flexible virtual machines that are hosted on the infrastructure of Google. It includes Windows and Linux based virtual machines that may run on local, KVM, and durable storage options. It also includes REST-based API for the control and configuration purposes. Google Compute Engine integrates with GCP technologies such as Google App Engine, Google Cloud Storage, and Google BigQuery in order to extend its computational ability and thus creates more sophisticated and complex applications. Q60 How are the Google Compute Engine and Google App Engine related? This typical and straightforward question is a part of the frequently asked Google Cloud Platform interview questions and answers, and can be answered like this. Google Compute Engine and Google App Engine are complementary to each other. Google Compute Engine is the IaaS product whereas Google App Engine is a PaaS product of Google. Google App Engine is generally used to run web-based applications, mobile backends, and line of business. If you want to keep the underlying infrastructure in more of your control, then Compute Engine is a perfect choice. For instance, you can use Compute Engine for the implementation of customized business logic or in case, you need to run your own storage system. Q61 How does the pricing model work in GCP cloud? Answer: While working on Google Cloud Platform, the user is charged on the basis of compute instance, network use, and storage by Google Compute Engine. Google Cloud charges virtual machines on the basis of per second with the limit of minimum of 1 minute. Then, the cost of storage is charged on the basis of the amount of data that you store. The cost of the network is calculated as per the amount of data that has been transferred between the virtual machine instances communicating with each other over the network. You should prepare yourself with the questions on Google Cloud Platform pricing models as these are among the most common Google Cloud interview questions. Q62 What are the different methods for the authentication of Google Compute Engine API? Answer: This is one of the popular Google Cloud architect interview questions which can be answered as follows. There are different methods for the authentication of Google Compute Engine API: ● Using OAuth 2.0 ● Through client library Steve Nouri ● Directly with an access token Q63 List some Database services by GCP. There are many Google cloud database services which helps many enterprises to manage their data. ● Bare Metal Solution is a relational database type and allow to migrate or lift and shift specialized workloads to Google cloud. ● Cloud SQL is a fully managed, reliable and integrated relational database services for MySQL, MS SQL Server and PostgreSQL known as Postgres. It reduce maintenance cost and ensure business continuity.