Reward: number taken by agent after last action 5. Observation: data related to environment: can be visible or partially shadowed Q5. What are Artificial Neural Networks? Artificial Neural networks are a specific set of algorithms that have revolutionized machine learning. They are inspired by biological neural networks. Neural Networks can adapt to changing the input, so the network generates the best possible result without needing to redesign the output criteria. Q6. Describe the structure of Artificial Neural Networks? Artificial Neural Networks works on the same principle as a biological Neural Network. It consists of inputs which get processed with weighted sums and Bias, with the help of Activation Functions. Q7. How Are Weights Initialized in a Network? There are two methods here: we can either initialize the weights to zero or assign them randomly. Initializing all weights to 0: This makes your model similar to a linear model. All the neurons and every layer perform the same operation, giving the same output and making the deep net useless. Initializing all weights randomly: Here, the weights are assigned randomly by initializing them very close to 0. It gives better accuracy to the model since every neuron performs different computations. This is the most commonly used method. Q8. What Is the Cost Function? Also referred to as "loss" or "error," cost function is a measure to evaluate how good your model's performance is. It's used to compute the error of the output layer during backpropagation. We push that error backwards through the neural network and use that during the different training functions. The most known one is the mean sum of squared errors. HX = N( ∑(F G ) + 3 ) Q9. What Are Hyperparameters? With neural networks, you're usually working with hyperparameters once the data is formatted correctly. A hyperparameter is a parameter whose value is set before the learning process begins. It determines how a network is trained and the structure of the network (such as the number of hidden units, the learning rate, epochs, batches, etc.). Q10. What Will Happen If the Learning Rate Is Set inaccurately (Too Low or Too High)? When your learning rate is too low, training of the model will progress very slowly as we are making minimal updates to the weights. It will take many updates before reaching the minimum point. If the learning rate is set too high, this causes undesirable divergent behavior to the loss function due to drastic updates in weights. It may fail to converge (model can give a good output) or even diverge (data is too chaotic for the network to train). Q11. What Is The Difference Between Epoch, Batch, and Iteration in Deep Learning? • Epoch - Represents one iteration over the entire dataset (everything put into the training model). • Batch - Refers to when we cannot pass the entire dataset into the neural network at once, so we divide the dataset into several batches. • Iteration - if we have 10,000 images as data and a batch size of 200. then an epoch should run 50 iterations (10,000 divided by 50). Q12. What Are the Different Layers on CNN? The Convolutional neural networks are regularized versions of multilayer perceptron (MLP). They were developed based on the working of the neurons of the animal visual cortex. Let's say we have a color image in JPG form and its size is 480 x 480. The representative array will be 480 x 480 x 3. Each of these numbers is given a value from 0 to 255 which describes the pixel intensity at that point. RGB intensity values of the image are visualized by the computer for processing. The objective of using the CNN: The idea is that you give the computer this array of numbers and it will output numbers that describe the probability of the image being a certain class (.80 for a cat, .15 for a dog, .05 for a bird, etc.). It works similar to how our brain works. When we look at a picture of a dog, we can classify it as such if the picture has identifiable features such as paws or 4 legs. In a similar way, the computer is able to perform image classification by looking for low-level features such as edges and curves and then building up to more abstract concepts through a series of convolutional layers. The computer uses low-level features obtained at the initial levels to generate high-level features such as paws or eyes to identify the object.