Team Size A huge team is required to involve with the work and communicate with the A smaller team is well enough stakeholders to resolve the issues 3. Implementation DevOps mainly focus on collaboration and hence there are no frequently permitted framework There are few frameworks in Agile which are safe and fray 4. Feedback Feedback is received from internal team Feedback is received from customers 5. Automation DevOps has a primary goal as Automation. Agile do no focus on automation though it is helpful 6. Tools used Chef, Puppet, AWS are some of the popular DevOps tools Kanboard, Jira, Bugzilla are some of the popular Agile tools Q279) What is JFrog Artifactory in DevOps? JFrog Artifactory is a binary repository manager which is useful to store the build process outcomes. JFrog afford replication, high availability, disaster recovery, and scalability which works with many cloud storages. Q280) Write a script in Python for DevOps learners to find palindrome of a sequence Below is the script in Python for DevOps learners to find palindrome of a sequence a=input ("enter sequence")b=a [: : -1] if a==b: print ("palindrome") else: print ("not palindrome") Q281) Give an example for Fibonacci series Below is an example for Fibonacci series: # Enter number of terms needed #0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5. a=int(input("Enter the terms")) f=0 s=1 if a<=0: print("The required series is\n" ,f) else: print(f, s, end=" ") for x in range (2, a): next=f+s print(next, end= " ") f=s s=net Q282) Explain NumPy in DevOps There are many packages in Python and NumPy- Numerical Python is one among them. This is useful for scientific computing containing powerful n-dimensional array object. We can get tools from NumPy to integrate C, C++ and so on. Q283) What are the available cloud computing platforms in DevOps? Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, and Amazon Web Services are the top three cloud computing platforms in DevOps. Q284) Describe Ansible Ansible is a very simple automation engine which is useful in automating tasks like configuration management, intra-service orchestration, cloud provisioning, and application deployment. Ansible does not use any additional custom security infrastructure or agents and hence this becomes very simple for deployment. By connecting to nodes and pushing out Ansible modules (small programs), you can see the working of Ansible. Q285) Provide an example of how a simple Ansible playbook appears Below is an example of simple ansible-playbook: #Simple Ansible Playbook • Run command1 on server1 • Run command2 on server2 • Run command3 on server3 • Run command4 on server4 • Restarting Server1 • Restarting Server2 • Restarting Server3 • Restarting Server4 Q286) Provide an example of how a complex ansible-playbook appears Below is an example of complex ansible-playbook: #Complex Ansible Playbook • Deploy 50 VMs on Public Cloud • Deploy 50 VMs on Private Cloud • Provision Storage to all VMs • Setup Monitoring Components • Setup Cluster Configuration • Install and Configure backup clients on VMs Q287) Can you provide a sample YAML format? Refer to the below sample YAML format: #Simple Ansible Playbook1.yml - name: Play 1 host: localhost tasks: • name: Execute command 'date' command: date • name: Execute script on server script: mytest_script.sh • name: install httpd service yum: name: httpd state: present • name: Start web server service: name: httpd state: started Q288) Explain Docker An open source that automates the application deployment is called a Docker. You can see the Docker container can be seen running in both Windows and Linux systems. Docker technology is promoted to work with vendors like cloud, windows, Linux and Microsoft. Containers are deployed by Docker at all layers of the hybrid cloud. Q289) Is it possible to consider DevOps as Agile Methodology? Yes, it is possible to consider DevOps as Agile Methodology, still we have differences between these two. Implementation of DevOps is possible on both development and operations section whereas Agile methodology implementation is possible only on development section.