When the training set is small, a model that has a right bias and low variance seems to work better because they are less likely to overfit. Steve Nouri For example, Naive Bayes works best when the training set is large. Models with low bias and high variance tend to perform better as they work fine with complex relationships. Q11 What are 3 data preprocessing techniques to handle outliers? 1. Winsorize (cap at threshold). 2. Transform to reduce skew (using Box-Cox or similar). 3. Remove outliers if you're certain they are anomalies or measurement errors. Q12 How much data should you allocate for your training, validation, and test sets? You have to find a balance, and there's no right answer for every problem. If your test set is too small, you'll have an unreliable estimation of model performance (performance statistic will have high variance). If your training set is too small, your actual model parameters will have a high variance. A good rule of thumb is to use an 80/20 train/test split. Then, your train set can be further split into train/validation or into partitions for cross-validation. Q13 What Is a False Positive and False Negative and How Are They Significant? False positives are those cases which wrongly get classified as True but are False. False negatives are those cases which wrongly get classified as False but are True. In the term 'False Positive,' the word 'Positive' refers to the 'Yes' row of the predicted value in the confusion matrix. The complete term indicates that the system has predicted it as a positive, but the actual value is negative. Q14 Explain the difference between L1 and L2 regularization. L2 regularization tends to spread error among all the terms, while L1 is more binary/sparse, with many variables either being assigned a 1 or 0 in weighting. L1 corresponds to setting a Laplacean prior to the terms, while L2 corresponds to a Gaussian prior. Q15 What's a Fourier transform? A Fourier transform is a generic method to decompose generic functions into a superposition of symmetric functions. Or as this more intuitive tutorial puts it, given a smoothie, it's how we find the recipe. The Fourier transform finds the set of cycle speeds, amplitudes, and phases to match any time signal. A Fourier transform converts a signal from time to frequency domain - it's a very common way to extract features from audio signals or other time series such as sensor data. Q16 What is deep learning, and how does it contrast with other machine learning algorithms? Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that is concerned with neural networks: how to use backpropagation and certain principles from neuroscience to more accurately model large sets of unlabelled or semi-structured data. In that sense, deep learning represents an Steve Nouri unsupervised learning algorithm that learns representations of data through the use of neural nets. Q17 What's the difference between a generative and discriminative model? A generative model will learn categories of data while a discriminative model will simply learn the distinction between different categories of data. Discriminative models will generally outperform generative models on classification tasks. Q18 What Are the Applications of Supervised Machine Learning in Modern Businesses? Applications of supervised machine learning include: ● Email Spam Detection Here we train the model using historical data that consists of emails categorized as spam or not spam. This labeled information is fed as input to the model. ● Healthcare Diagnosis By providing images regarding a disease, a model can be trained to detect if a person is suffering from the disease or not. ● Sentiment Analysis This refers to the process of using algorithms to mine documents and determine whether they're positive, neutral, or negative in sentiment. ● Fraud Detection Training the model to identify suspicious patterns, we can detect instances of possible fraud. Q19 What Is Semi-supervised Machine Learning? Supervised learning uses data that is completely labeled, whereas unsupervised learning uses no training data. In the case of semi-supervised learning, the training data contains a small amount of labeled data and a large amount of unlabeled data. Q20. What Are Unsupervised Machine Learning Techniques? There are two techniques used in unsupervised learning: clustering and association. Clustering ● Clustering problems involve data to be divided into subsets.