layer), the output will be activations that represent higher-level features. Types of these features could be semicircles (a combination of a curve and straight edge) or squares (a combination of several straight edges). As you go through the network and go through more convolutional layers, you get activation maps that represent more and more complex features. 4. By the end of the network, you may have some filters that activate when there is handwriting in the image, filters that activate when they see pink objects, etc. Pooling Operation It consists in getting the largest number out of a matrix to get the most important number and reduce the dimention. Max Pooling example 2x2 filters with stride = 2 (maximum value) is considered 3x3 filters with stride = 1 (maximum value) is considered 3x3 filters with stride = 2 (maximum value) is considered Classification 1. Flatten: The pooled matrix is converted to a vector. 2. Fully Connected layer: The way this fully connected layer works is that it looks at the output of the previous layer (which as we remember should represent the activation maps of high-level features) and the number of classes p (10 for digit classification). For example, if the program is predicting that some image is a dog, it will have high values in the activation maps that represent high-level features like a paw or 4 legs, etc. Basically, an FC layer looks at what high level features most strongly correlate to a particular class and has particular weights so that when you compute the products between the weights and the previous layer, you get the correct probabilities for the different classes. 3. Soft-max approach: The output of a fully connected layer is as follows [0 .1 .1 .75 0 0 0 0 0 .05], then this represents a 10% probability that the image is a 1, a 10% probability that the image is a 2, a 75% probability that the image is a 3, and a 5% probability that the image is a 9 (SoftMax approach) for digit classification. Training §We know kernels also known as feature identifiers, used for identification of specific features. But how the kernels are initialized with the specific weights or how do the filters know what values to have. Hence comes the important step of training. The training process is also known as backpropagation, which is further separated into 4 distinct sections or processes. • Forward Pass • Loss Function • Backward Pass • Weight Update The Forward Pass For the first epoch or iteration of the training the initial kernels of the first convolutional layer are initialized with random values. Thus, after the first iteration output will be something like [.1.1.1.1.1.1.1.1.1.1], which does not give preference to any class as the kernels don't have specific weights. The Loss Function The training involves images along with labels, hence the label for the digit 3 will be [0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0], whereas the output after a first epoch is very different, hence we will calculate loss (MSE - Mean Squared Error) The objective is to minimize the loss, which is an optimization problem in calculus. It involves trying to adjust the weights to reduce the loss. The Backward Pass It involves determining which weights contributed most to the loss and finding ways to adjust them so that the loss decreases. It is computed using $ $ (or ∇"*), where L is the loss and the W is the weights of the corresponding kernel. The weights update This is where the weights of the kernel are updated using the following equation. Here the Learning Rate is chosen by the programmer. Larger value of the learning rate indicates much larger steps towards optimization of steps and larger time to convolve to an optimized weight. Testing Finally, to see whether or not our CNN works, we have a different set of images and labels (can't double dip between training and test!) and pass the images through the CNN. We compare the outputs to the ground truth and see if our network works! Q13. What Is Pooling on CNN, and How Does It Work? Pooling is used to reduce the spatial dimensions of a CNN. It performs down-sampling operations to reduce the dimensionality and creates a pooled feature map by sliding a filter matrix over the input matrix. Q14. What are Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs)?