Below is a diagrammatic representation of IaC. Q302) Can you provide a diagrammatic explanation on Chef Architecture? Below is the diagrammatic explanation of chef architecture Q303) Give a solution when a resource action is not specified in Chef Chef applied the default action when a resource action is not specified in Chef. Below is the best example: File 'C:\User\Administrator\chef-repo\settings.ini' do action :create content 'greetings=welcome all' end Q304) Explain NRPE available in Nagios NRPE stands for Nagios Remote Plugin Executor. This is an addon intended to permit the users to execute Nagios plugins. The vital reason for using this addon is to monitor local resources such as memory usage, CPU load and so on. Q305) Through SDLC, how Docker provides steady computing environment? Below are the steps on how Docker provides steady computing environment: 1. A Docker image is created is built by a Docker file and all the project codes are contained in that image. 2. You can create many Docker containers by running that image. 3. Now, you can upload the image on Docker Hub and anyone can pull the image from Docker Hub to build a container. Q306) Explain Docker Compose To configure and run applications easily that are made up of multiple containers, you can use Docker Compose. Let us have the below example for Docker Compose: Three different containers where on running on web app, second on postgres and third container running on redis. All these three are in one single YAML file. Now to run all three connected containers with a single command, Docker Compose is used. Q307) What is the command in git to modify the commit message? Use the command "amend" to modify the commit message. Q308) Give us two methods to install Jenkins Below are the top two methods to install Jenkins: 1. Download Jenkins archive file 2. In tomcat, you need to deploy Jenkins.war to web apps folder. Q309) What is the command to connect a container to a network? Use the command "docker run -itd -network=multi-host-network busybox" to connect a container to a network. Q310) What is the usage of chmod command in DevOps? To modify the access authorizations of file system objects, chmod is used which is a system call and command. You can also modify special mode flags. Q311) What is the information available in Node status? Capacity and Allocatable, Addresses, and conditions are the information available in Node status. The command to display the Node status information is "kubectl describe node <node-name-here>. Follow Steve Nouri for more AI and Data science posts: Interview Question Series #2 Python Programming Numpy 1. Why is python numpy better than lists? Python numpy arrays should be considered instead of a list because they are fast, consume less memory and convenient with lots of functionality. 2. Describe the map function in Python? map function executes the function given as the first argument on all the elements of the iterable given as the second argument. 3. Generate array of '100' random numbers sampled from a standard normal distribution using Numpy np.random.rand(100) will create 100 random numbers generated from standard normal distribution with mean 0 and standard deviation 1. 4. How to count the occurrence of each value in a numpy array? Use numpy.bincount() >>> arr = numpy.array([0, 5, 5, 0, 2, 4, 3, 0, 0, 5, 4, 1, 9, 9]) >>> numpy.bincount(arr) The argument to bincount() must consist of booleans or positive integers. Negative integers are invalid. 5. Does Numpy Support Nan? nan, short for "not a number", is a special floating point value defined by the IEEE-754 specification. Python numpy supports nan but the definition of nan is more system dependent and some systems don't have an all round support for it like older cray and vax computers. 6. What does ravel() function in numpy do? It combines multiple numpy arrays into a single array 7. What is the meaning of axis=0 and axis=1?