There are 3 types of roles in Microsoft Azure: ● Web Role ● Worker Role ● VM Role Let's discuss each of these roles in detail: ● Web Role - A web role is basically used to deploy a website, using languages supported by the IIS platform like, PHP, .NET etc. It is configured and customized to run web applications. ● Worker Role - A worker role is more like an help to the Web role, it used to execute background processes unlike the Web Role which is used to deploy the website. ● VM Role - The VM role is used by a user to schedule tasks and other windows services. This role can be used to customize the machines on which the web and worker role is running. Q74 What is Azure as PaaS? PaaS is a computing platform that includes an operating system, programming language execution environment, database, or web services. Developers and application providers use this type of Azure services. Steve Nouri Q75 What are Break-fix issues in Microsoft Azure? In, Microsoft Azure, all the technical problem is called break-fix issues. This term uses when "work involved in support a technology when it fails in the normal course of its function. Q76 Explain Diagnostics in Windows Azure Windows Azure Diagnostic offers the facility to store diagnostic data. In Azure, some diagnostics data is stored in the table, while some are stored in a blob. The diagnostic monitor runs in Windows Azure as well as in the computer's emulator for collecting data for a role instance. Q77 State the difference between repetitive and minimal monitoring. Verbose monitoring collects metrics based on performance. It allows a close analysis of data fed during the process of application. On the other hand, minimal monitoring is a default configuration method. It makes the user of performance counters gathered from the operating system of the host. Q78 What is the main difference between the repository and the powerhouse server? The main difference between them is that repository servers are instead of the integrity, consistency, and uniformity while powerhouse server governs the integration of different aspects of the database repository. Q79 Explain command task in Microsoft Azure Command task is an operational window which set off the flow of either single or multiple common whiles when the system is running. Q80 What is the difference between Azure Service Bus Queues and Storage Queues? Two types of queue mechanisms are supported by Azure: Storage queues and Service Bus queues. Storage queues: These are the part of the Azure storage infrastructure, features a simple REST-based GET/PUT/PEEK interface. Provides persistent and reliable messaging within and between services. Service Bus queues: These are the part of a broader Azure messaging infrastructure that helps to queue as well as publish/subscribe, and more advanced integration patterns. Q81 Explain Azure Service Fabric. Azure Service Fabric is a distributed platform designed by Microsoft to facilitate the development, deployment and management of highly scalable and customizable applications. The applications created in this environment consists of detached microservices that communicate with each other through service application programming interfaces. Q82 Define the Azure Redis Cache. Azure Redis Cache is an open-source and in-memory Redis cache that helps web applications to fetch data from a backend data source into cache and server web pages from the cache to enhance the application performance. It provides a powerful and secure way to cache the application's data in the Azure cloud. Steve Nouri Q83 How many instances of a Role should be deployed to satisfy Azure SLA (service level agreement)? And what's the benefit of Azure SLA? TWO. And if we do so, the role would have external connectivity at least 99.95% of the time. Q84 What are the options to manage session state in Windows Azure? ● Windows Azure Caching ● SQL Azure ● Azure Table Q85 What is cspack? It is a command-line tool that generates a service package file (.cspkg) and prepares an application for deployment, either to Windows Azure or to the compute emulator. Q86 What is csrun? It is a command-line tool that deploys a packaged application to the Windows Azure compute emulator and manages the running service. Q87 How to design applications to handle connection failure in Windows Azure? The Transient Fault Handling Application Block supports various standard ways of generating the retry delay time interval, including fixed interval, incremental interval (the interval increases by a standard amount), and exponential back-off (the interval doubles with some random variation).