Resampling is done in any of these cases: • Estimating the accuracy of sample statistics by using subsets of accessible data or drawing randomly with replacement from a set of data points • Substituting labels on data points when performing significance tests • Validating models by using random subsets (bootstrapping, cross-validation) Q17. What are the differences between over-fitting and under-fitting? In statistics and machine learning, one of the most common tasks is to fit a model to a set of training data, so as to be able to make reliable predictions on general untrained data. In overfitting, a statistical model describes random error or noise instead of the underlying relationship. Overfitting occurs when a model is excessively complex, such as having too many parameters relative to the number of observations. A model that has been overfitted, has poor predictive performance, as it overreacts to minor fluctuations in the training data. Underfitting occurs when a statistical model or machine learning algorithm cannot capture the underlying trend of the data. Underfitting would occur, for example, when fitting a linear model to non-linear data. Such a model too would have poor predictive performance. Q18. How to combat Overfitting and Underfitting? To combat overfitting: 1. Add noise 2. Feature selection 3. Increase training set 4. L2 (ridge) or L1 (lasso) regularization; L1 drops weights, L2 no 5. Use cross-validation techniques, such as k folds cross-validation 6. Boosting and bagging 7. Dropout technique 8. Perform early stopping 9. Remove inner layers To combat underfitting: 1. Add features 2. Increase time of training Q19. What is regularization? Why is it useful? Regularization is the process of adding tuning parameter (penalty term) to a model to induce smoothness in order to prevent overfitting. This is most often done by adding a constant multiple to an existing weight vector. This constant is often the L1 (Lasso - |I|) or L2 (Ridge - I ). The model predictions should then minimize the loss function calculated on the regularized training set. Q20. What Is the Law of Large Numbers? It is a theorem that describes the result of performing the same experiment a large number of times. This theorem forms the basis of frequency-style thinking. It says that the sample means, the sample variance and the sample standard deviation converge to what they are trying to estimate. According to the law, the average of the results obtained from a large number of trials should be close to the expected value and will tend to become closer to the expected value as more trials are performed. Q21. What Are Confounding Variables? In statistics, a confounder is a variable that influences both the dependent variable and independent variable. If you are researching whether a lack of exercise leads to weight gain: lack of exercise = independent variable weight gain = dependent variable A confounding variable here would be any other variable that affects both of these variables, such as the age of the subject. Q22. What Are the Types of Biases That Can Occur During Sampling? a. Selection bias b. Under coverage bias c. Survivorship bias Q23. What is Survivorship Bias? It is the logical error of focusing aspects that support surviving some process and casually overlooking those that did not work because of their lack of prominence. This can lead to wrong conclusions in numerous different means. For example, during a recession you look just at the survived businesses, noting that they are performing poorly. However, they perform better than the rest, which is failed, thus being removed from the time series. Q24. What is Selection Bias? What is under coverage bias? Selection bias occurs when the sample obtained is not representative of the population intended to be analyzed. For instance, you select only Asians to perform a study on the world population height. Under coverage bias occurs when some members of the population are inadequately represented in the sample. A classic example of under coverage is the Literary Digest voter survey, which predicted that Alfred Landon would beat Franklin Roosevelt in the 1936 presidential election. The survey sample suffered from under coverage of low-income voters, who tended to be Democrats. How did this happen? The survey relied on a convenience sample, drawn from telephone directories and car registration lists. In 1936, people who owned cars and telephones tended to be more affluent. Under coverage is often a problem with convenience samples. Q25.