Explain how a ROC curve works? The ROC curve is a graphical representation of the contrast between true positive rates and false positive rates at various thresholds. It is often used as a proxy for the trade-off between the sensitivity (true positive rate) and false positive rate. • /,- = = • /+- = = • &,- = • &+- = Q26. What is TF/IDF vectorization? TF-IDF is short for term frequency-inverse document frequency, is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus. It is often used as a weighting factor in information retrieval and text mining. • /& = # '" ' # " • )$& = <?8 ] # " '" ' ^ The TF-IDF value increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in the document but is offset by the frequency of the word in the corpus, which helps to adjust for the fact that some words appear more frequently in general. Q27. Why we generally use Soft-max (or sigmoid) non-linearity function as last operation in-network? Why RELU in an inner layer? It is because it takes in a vector of real numbers and returns a probability distribution. Its definition is as follows. Let x be a vector of real numbers (positive, negative, whatever, there are no constraints). Then the i-eth component of soft-max(x) is: It should be clear that the output is a probability distribution: each element is non-negative and the sum over all components is 1. RELU because it avoids the vanishing gradient descent issue. Data Analysis Q1. Python or R - Which one would you prefer for text analytics? We will prefer Python because of the following reasons: • Python would be the best option because it has Pandas library that provides easy to use data structures and high-performance data analysis tools. • R is more suitable for machine learning than just text analysis. • Python performs faster for all types of text analytics. Q2. How does data cleaning play a vital role in the analysis? Data cleaning can help in analysis because: • Cleaning data from multiple sources helps transform it into a format that data analysts or data scientists can work with. • Data Cleaning helps increase the accuracy of the model in machine learning. • It is a cumbersome process because as the number of data sources increases, the time taken to clean the data increases exponentially due to the number of sources and the volume of data generated by these sources. • It might take up to 80% of the time for just cleaning data making it a critical part of the analysis task. Q3. Differentiate between univariate, bivariate and multivariate analysis. Univariate analyses are descriptive statistical analysis techniques which can be differentiated based on one variable involved at a given point of time. For example, the pie charts of sales based on territory involve only one variable and can the analysis can be referred to as univariate analysis. The bivariate analysis attempts to understand the difference between two variables at a time as in a scatterplot. For example, analyzing the volume of sale and spending can be considered as an example of bivariate analysis. Multivariate analysis deals with the study of more than two variables to understand the effect of variables on the responses. Q4. Explain Star Schema. It is a traditional database schema with a central table. Satellite tables map IDs to physical names or descriptions and can be connected to the central fact table using the ID fields; these tables are known as lookup tables and are principally useful in real-time applications, as they save a lot of memory. Sometimes star schemas involve several layers of summarization to recover information faster. Q5. What is Cluster Sampling? Cluster sampling is a technique used when it becomes difficult to study the target population spread across a wide area and simple random sampling cannot be applied. Cluster Sample is a probability sample where each sampling unit is a collection or cluster of elements. For example, a researcher wants to survey the academic performance of high school students in Japan. He can divide the entire population of Japan into different clusters (cities). Then the researcher selects a number of clusters depending on his research through simple or systematic random sampling. Q6. What is Systematic Sampling? Systematic sampling is a statistical technique where elements are selected from an ordered sampling frame.