It represents the maximum variance direction in the data. Each observation may be projected onto this line in order to get a coordinate value along the PC-line. This value is known as a score. The next best-fitting line can be similarly chosen from directions perpendicular to the first. Repeating this process yields an orthogonal basis in which different individual dimensions of the data are uncorrelated. These basis vectors are called principal components. PCA is mostly used as a tool in exploratory data analysis and for making predictive models. It is often used to visualize genetic distance and relatedness between populations. Q7. Explain SVM algorithm in detail. Classifying data is a common task in machine learning. Suppose some given data points each belong to one of two classes, and the goal is to decide which class a new data point will be in. In the case of support- vector machines, a data point is viewed as a p-dimensional vector (a list of @ numbers), and we want to know whether we can separate such points with a (@ −1)-dimensional hyperplane. This is called a linear classifier. There are many hyperplanes that might classify the data. One reasonable choice as the best hyperplane is the one that represents the largest separation, or margin, between the two classes. So, we choose the hyperplane so that the distance from it to the nearest data point on each side is maximized. If such a hyperplane exists, it is known as the maximum-margin hyperplane and the linear classifier it defines is known as a maximum-margin classifier; or equivalently, the perceptron of optimal stability. The best hyper plane that divides the data is ( . We have n data (G , H ), . , (G , H ) and p different features G = (G , . , G ) and H is either 1 or -1. The equation of the hyperplane ( is as the set of points x satisfying: F ∙G −3 = 0 where F is the (not necessarily normalized) normal vector to the hyperplane. The parameter ‖"‖ determines the offset of the hyperplane from the origin along the normal vector w. So, for each :, either G is in the hyperplane of 1 or -1. Basically, G satisfies: F ∙G −3 ≥1 ?A F ∙G −3 ≤−1 • SVMs are helpful in text and hypertext categorization, as their application can significantly reduce the need for labeled training instances in both the standard inductive and transductive settings. Some methods for shallow semantic parsing are based on support vector machines. • Classification of images can also be performed using SVMs. Experimental results show that SVMs achieve significantly higher search accuracy than traditional query refinement schemes after just three to four rounds of relevance feedback. • Classification of satellite data like SAR data using supervised SVM. • Hand-written characters can be recognized using SVM. Q8. What are the support vectors in SVM? In the diagram, we see that the sketched lines mark the distance from the classifier (the hyper plane) to the closest data points called the support vectors (darkened data points). The distance between the two thin lines is called the margin. To extend SVM to cases in which the data are not linearly separable, we introduce the hinge loss function, max (0, 1 −H (F ∙G −3)) This function is zero if x lies on the correct side of the margin. For data on the wrong side of the margin, the function's value is proportional to the distance from the margin. Q9. What are the different kernels in SVM? There are four types of kernels in SVM. 1. LinearKernel 2. Polynomial kernel 3. Radial basis kernel 4. Sigmoid kernel Q10. What are the most known ensemble algorithms? The most popular trees are: AdaBoost, Random Forest, and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost). AdaBoost is best used in a dataset with low noise, when computational complexity or timeliness of results is not a main concern and when there are not enough resources for broader hyperparameter tuning due to lack of time and knowledge of the user.