In the above diagram, each line carries an entire vector, from the output of one node to the inputs of others. The pink circles represent pointwise operations, like vector addition, while the yellow boxes are learned neural network layers. Lines merging denote concatenation, while a line forking denotes its content being copied and the copies going to different locations. The Core Idea Behind LSTMs The key to LSTMs is the cell state, the horizontal line running through the top of the diagram. The cell state is kind of like a conveyor belt. It runs straight down the entire chain, with only some minor linear interactions. It's very easy for information to just flow along it unchanged. The LSTM does have the ability to remove or add information to the cell state, carefully regulated by structures called gates. Gates are a way to optionally let information through. They are composed out of a sigmoid neural net layer and a pointwise multiplication operation. The sigmoid layer outputs numbers between zero and one, describing how much of each component should be let through. A value of zero means "let nothing through," while a value of one means "let everything through!" An LSTM has three of these gates, to protect and control the cell state. Q16. What Is a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP)? As in Neural Networks, MLPs have an input layer, a hidden layer, and an output layer. It has the same structure as a single layer perceptron with one or more hidden layers. Perceptron is a single layer neural network and a multi-layer perceptron is called Neural Networks. A (single layer) perceptron is a single layer neural network that works as a linear binary classifier. Being a single layer neural network, it can be trained without the use of more advanced algorithms like back propagation and instead can be trained by "stepping towards" your error in steps specified by a learning rate. When someone says perceptron, I usually think of the single layer version. A single layer perceptron can classify only linear separable classes with binary output {0,1} or {-1,1}, but MLP can classify nonlinear classes. The activation functions are used to map the input between the required values like {0, 1} or {-1, 1}. Except for the input layer, each node in the other layers uses a nonlinear activation function. This means the input layers, the data coming in, and the activation function is based upon all nodes and weights being added together, producing the output. MLP uses a supervised learning method called "backpropagation." In backpropagation, the neural network calculates the error with the help of cost function. It propagates this error backward from where it came (adjusts the weights to train the model more accurately). Usually, RELU is in hidden layers (it does not classify), and Soft-max or tanh is in output layers. Q17. Explain Gradient Descent. Let's first explain what a gradient is. A gradient is a mathematical function. When calculated on a point of a function, it gives the hyperplane (or slope) of the directions in which the function increases more. The gradient vector can be interpreted as the "direction and rate of fastest increase". If the gradient of a function is non-zero at a point p, the direction of the gradient is the direction in which the function increases most quickly from p, and the magnitude of the gradient is the rate of increase in that direction. Further, the gradient is the zero vector at a point if and only if it is a stationary point (where the derivative vanishes). In DS, it simply measures the change in all weights with regard to the change in error, as we are partially derivating by w the loss function. Gradient descent is a first-order iterative optimization algorithm for finding the minimum of a function. The goal of the gradient descent is to minimize a given function which, in our case, is the loss function of the neural network. To achieve this goal, it performs two steps iteratively. 1. Compute the slope (gradient) that is the first-order derivative of the function at the current point 2.