Answer: The need for transform is most of the signals or images are time-domain signal (ie) signals can be measured with a function of time. This representation is not always best. Any person of the mathematical transformations is applied to the signal or images to obtain further information from that signal. Particularly, for image processing. Q97 What is FPN? Feature Pyramid Network (FPN) is a feature extractor designed with a feature pyramid concept to improve accuracy and speed. Images are first to pass through the CNN pathway, yielding semantically rich final layers. Then to regain better resolution, it creates a top-down pathway by upsampling this feature map. Top 100 Interview Questions on Cloud Computing Services By Steve Nouri Q1 Which are the different layers that define cloud architecture? Ans. Below mentioned are the different layers that are used by cloud architecture: ● Cluster Controller ● SC or Storage Controller ● NC or Node Controller ● CLC or Cloud Controller ● Walrus Q2 Explain Cloud Service Models? Ans. There are three types of Cloud Service Models: ● Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) ● Platform as a service (PaaS) ● Software as a service (SaaS) Q3 What are Hybrid clouds? Ans. Hybrid clouds are made up of both public clouds and private clouds. It is preferred over both the clouds because it applies the most robust approach to implement cloud architecture. The hybrid cloud has features and performance of both private and public cloud. It has an important feature where the cloud can be created by an organization and the control of it can be given to some other organization. Q4 Explain Platform as a Service (Paas)? Ans. It is also a layer in cloud architecture. Platform as a Service is responsible to provide complete virtualization of the infrastructure layer, make it look like a single server and invisible for the outside world. Q5 What is the difference in cloud computing and Mobile Cloud computing? Ans. Mobile cloud computing and cloud computing has the same concept. The cloud computing becomes active when switched from the mobile. Moreover, most of the tasks can be performed with the help of mobile. These applications run on the mobile server and provide rights to the user to access and manage storage. Steve Nouri Q6 What are the security aspects provided with the cloud? Ans. There are 3 types of Cloud Computing Security: ● Identity Management: It authorizes the application services. ● Access Control: The user needs permission so that they can control the access of another user who is entering into the cloud environment. ● Authentication and Authorization: Allows only the authorized and authenticated the user only to access the data and applications Q7 What are system integrators in cloud computing? System Integrators emerged into the scene in 2006. System integration is the practice of bringing together components of a system into a whole and making sure that the system performs smoothly. A person or a company which specializes in system integration is called as a system integrator. Q8 What is the usage of utility computing? Utility computing, or The Computer Utility, is a service provisioning model in which a service provider makes computing resources and infrastructure management available to the customer as needed and charges them for specific usage rather than a flat rate Utility computing is a plug-in managed by an organization which decides what type of services has to be deployed from the cloud. It facilitates users to pay only for what they use. Q9 What are some large cloud providers and databases? Following are the most used large cloud providers and databases: - Google BigTable - Amazon SimpleDB - Cloud-based SQL Q10 Explain the difference between cloud and traditional data centers. In a traditional data center, the major drawback is the expenditure. A traditional data center is comparatively expensive due to heating, hardware, and software issues. So, not only is the initial cost higher, but the maintenance cost is also a problem. Cloud being scaled when there is an increase in demand. Mostly the expenditure is on the maintenance of the data centers, while these issues are not faced in cloud computing. Q11 What do you mean by CaaS? CaaS is a terminology used in the telecom industry as Communication As a Service. CaaS offers to the enterprise user features such as desktop call control, unified messaging, and desktop faxing. Steve Nouri Q12 What is hypervisor in Cloud Computing? Ans: It is a virtual machine screen that can logically manage resources for virtual machines.