Looking at the advantages of LayerNorm, it is robust to batch size and works better as it works at the sample level and not batch level. Q86 What changes would you make to your deep learning code if you knew there are errors in your training data? We can do label smoothening where the smoothening value is based on % error. If any particular class has known error, we can also use class weights to modify the loss. Q87 What are the tricks used in ULMFiT? (Not a great questions but checks the awareness) ● LM tuning with task text ● Weight dropout ● Discriminative learning rates for layers ● Gradual unfreezing of layers ● Slanted triangular learning rate schedule This can be followed up with a question on explaining how they help. Q88 Tell me a language model which doesn't use dropout ALBERT v2 - This throws a light on the fact that a lot of assumptions we take for granted are not necessarily true. The regularisation effect of parameter sharing in ALBERT is so strong that dropouts are not needed. (ALBERT v1 had dropouts.) Q89 What are the differences between GPT and GPT-2? (From Lilian Weng) Steve Nouri ● Layer normalization was moved to the input of each sub-block, similar to a residual unit of type "building block" (differently from the original type "bottleneck", it has batch normalization applied before weight layers). ● An additional layer normalization was added after the final self-attention block. ● A modified initialization was constructed as a function of the model depth. ● The weights of residual layers were initially scaled by a factor of 1/√n where n is the number of residual layers. ● Use larger vocabulary size and context size. Q90 What are the differences between GPT and BERT? ● GPT is not bidirectional and has no concept of masking ● BERT adds next sentence prediction task in training and so it also has a segment embedding Q91 What are the differences between BERT and ALBERT v2? ● Embedding matrix factorisation(helps in reducing no. of parameters) ● No dropout ● Parameter sharing(helps in reducing no. of parameters and regularisation) Q92 How does parameter sharing in ALBERT affect the training and inference time? No effect. Parameter sharing just decreases the number of parameters. Q93 How would you reduce the inference time of a trained NN model? ● Serve on GPU/TPU/FPGA ● 16 bit quantisation and served on GPU with fp16 support ● Pruning to reduce parameters ● Knowledge distillation (To a smaller transformer model or simple neural network) ● Hierarchical softmax/Adaptive softmax ● You can also cache results as explained here. Q94 Would you use BPE with classical models? Of course! BPE is a smart tokeniser and it can help us get a smaller vocabulary which can help us find a model with less parameters. Q95 How would you make an arxiv papers search engine? (I was asked - How would you make a plagiarism detector?) Get top k results with TF-IDF similarity and then rank results with ● semantic encoding + cosine similarity ● a model trained for ranking Steve Nouri Q96 Get top k results with TF-IDF similarity and then rank results with ● semantic encoding + cosine similarity ● a model trained for ranking Q97 How would you make a sentiment classifier? This is a trick question. The interviewee can say all things such as using transfer learning and latest models but they need to talk about having a neutral class too otherwise you can have really good accuracy/f1 and still, the model will classify everything into positive or negative. The truth is that a lot of news is neutral and so the training needs to have this class. The interviewee should also talk about how he will create a dataset and his training strategies like the selection of language model, language model fine-tuning and using various datasets for multi- task learning. Q98 What is the difference between regular expression and regular grammar? A regular expression is the representation of natural language in the form of mathematical expressions containing a character sequence.