Compare changes over time. See who last modified the something that might to be causing a problem. Who introduced an issue and when. Q189) What are the containers? Containers are the of lightweight virtualization, heavier than 'chroot' but lighter than 'hypervisors'. They provide isolation among processes Q190) What is meant by Continuous Integration? It is a development practice that requires are developers to integrate code into the shared repository several times a day. Q191) What's a PTR in DNS? Pointer (PTR) record to used for the revers DNS (Domain Name System) lookup. Q192) What testing is necessary to insure a new service is ready for production? Continuous testing Q193) What is Continuous Testing? It is the process of executing on tests as part of the software delivery pipelines to obtain can immediate for feedback is the business of the risks associated with in the latest build. Q194) What is Automation Testing? Automation testing or Test Automation is a process of the automating that manual process to test the application/system under test. Q195) What are the key elements of continuous testing? Risk assessments, policy analysis, requirements traceabilities, advanced analysis, test optimisation, and service virtualisations Q196) What are the Testing types supported by Selenium? Regression testing and functional testing Also Read>> Top Selenium Interview Questions & Answers Q197) What is Puppet? It is a Configuration Management tool which is used to the automate administration of the tasks. Q198) How does HTTP work? The HTTP protocol are works in a client and server model like most other protocols. A web browser using which a request is initiated is called as a client and a web servers software which are the responds to that request is called a server. World Wide Web Consortium of the Internet Engineering Task Force are two importants spokes are the standardization of the HTTP protocol. Q199) Describe two-factor authentication? Two-factors authentication are the security process in which the user to provides two means of the identification from separate categories of credentials. Q200) What is git add? adds the file changes to the staging area Become an DevOpsCertified Expert in 25Hours Q201) What is git commit? Commits the changes to the HEAD (staging area) Q202) What is git push? Sends the changes to the remote repository Q203) What is git checkout? Switch branch or restore working files Q204) What is git branch? Creates a branch Q205) What is git fetch? Fetch the latest history from the remote server and updates the local repo Q206) What is git merge? Joins two or more branches together Q207) What is git pull? Fetch from and integrate with another repository or a local branch (git fetch + git merge) Q208) What is git rebase? Process of moving or combining a sequence of commits to a new base commit Q209) What is git revert? To revert a commit that has already been published and made public Q210 What is git clone? Ans: clones the git repository and creates a working copy in the local machine Q211) What is the difference between the Annie Playbook book and the characters? Roles The characters are a restructured entity of a play. Plays are on playbooks. A set of functions to accomplish the specific role. Maps between hosts and roles. Example: Common, Winners. Example: site.yml, fooservers.yml, webservers.yml. Q212) How do I see all the ansible_ variables list? By naturally collecting "facts" about the machines, these facts can be accessed in Playbooks and in templates. To see a list of all the facts about a computer, you can run a "setup" block as an ad hoc activity: Ansible -m system hostname It will print a dictionary of all the facts available for that particular host. Q213) What is Doctor? Docax is a container technology that connects your application and all its functions into the form of containers to ensure that you are running uninterrupted in any situation of your use. Q214) What is the Tagore film? Tucker is the source of the dagger container. Or in other words, dagger pictures are used to create containers. Q215) What is the tooger container? Dogger Container is a phenomenon of the film. Q216) Do we consider Dev Devils as a smart way? Of course, we !