A) Frequency count of terms B) Vector Notation of sentence C) Part of Speech Tag D) Dependency Grammar E) All of these Solution: (E) All of the techniques can be used for the purpose of engineering features in a model. Q75 What percentage of the total statements are correct with regards to Topic Modeling? 1. It is a supervised learning technique 2. LDA (Linear Discriminant Analysis) can be used to perform topic modeling 3. Selection of number of topics in a model does not depend on the size of data 4. Number of topic terms are directly proportional to size of the data A) 0 B) 25 C) 50 D) 75 E) 100 Solution: (A) LDA is unsupervised learning model, LDA is latent Dirichlet allocation, not Linear discriminant analysis. Selection of the number of topics is directly proportional to the size of the data, while number of topic terms is not directly proportional to the size of the data. Hence none of the statements are correct. Steve Nouri Q76 In Latent Dirichlet Allocation model for text classification purposes, what does alpha and beta hyperparameter represent- A) Alpha: number of topics within documents, beta: number of terms within topics False B) Alpha: density of terms generated within topics, beta: density of topics generated within terms False C) Alpha: number of topics within documents, beta: number of terms within topics False D) Alpha: density of topics generated within documents, beta: density of terms generated within topics True Solution: (D) Option D is correct Q77 What is the problem with ReLu? ● Exploding gradient(Solved by gradient clipping) ● Dying ReLu - No learning if the activation is 0 (Solved by parametric relu) ● Mean and variance of activations is not 0 and 1. (Partially solved by subtracting around 0.5 from activation. Better explained in fastai videos) Q78 What is the difference between learning latent features using SVD and getting embedding vectors using deep network? SVD uses linear combination of inputs while a neural network uses nonlinear combination. Q79 What is the information in the hidden and cell state of LSTM? Hidden stores all the information till that time step and cell state stores particular information that might be needed in the future time step. Number of parameters in an LSTM model with bias 4( h+h2+h) where is input vectors size and h is output vectors size a.k.a. hidden The point to see here is that mh dictates the model size as m>>h. Hence it's important to have a small vocab. Time complexity of LSTM seq_length*hidden2 Time complexity of transfomer seq_length2*hidden When hidden size is more than the seq_length(which is normally the case), transfomer is faster than LSTM. Q80 When is self-attention not faster than recurrent layers? When the sequence length is greater than the representation dimensions. This is rare. Q81 What is the benefit of learning rate warm-up? Steve Nouri Learning rate warm-up is a learning rate schedule where you have low (or lower) learning rate at the beginning of training to avoid divergence due to unreliable gradients at the beginning. As the model becomes more stable, the learning rate would increase to speed up convergence. Q82 What's the difference between hard and soft parameter sharing in multi-task learning? Hard sharing is where we train for all the task at the same time and update our weights using all the losses whereas soft sharing is where we train for one task at a time. Q83 What's the difference between BatchNorm and LayerNorm? BatchNorm computes the mean and variance at each layer for every minibatch whereas LayerNorm computes the mean and variance for every sample for each layer independently. Batch normalisation allows you to set higher learning rates, increasing speed of training as it reduces the unstability of initial starting weights. Q84 Difference between BatchNorm and LayerNorm? BatchNorm - Compute the mean and var at each layer for every minibatch LayerNorm - Compute the mean and var for every single sample for each layer independently Q85 Why does the transformer block have LayerNorm instead of BatchNorm?