walks → walk) to further trim our vocabulary ● generalizing irrelevant information: we can replace all numbers with a <NUMBER> token or all names with a <NAME> token Q68 How does the encoder-decoder structure work for language modelling? The encoder-decoder structure is a deep learning model architecture responsible for several state of the art solutions, including Machine Translation. The input sequence is passed to the encoder where it is transformed to a fixed-dimensional vector representation using a neural network. The transformed input is then decoded using another neural network. Then, these outputs undergo another transformation and a softmax layer. The final output is a vector of probabilities over the vocabularies. Meaningful information is extracted based on these probabilities. Q69 What are attention mechanisms and why do we use them? This was a followup to the encoder-decoder question. Only the output from the last time step is passed to the decoder, resulting in a loss of information learned at previous time steps. This information loss is compounded for longer text sequences with more time steps. Attention mechanisms are a function of the hidden weights at each time step. When we use attention in encoder-decoder networks, the fixed-dimensional vector passed to the decoder becomes a function of all vectors outputted in the intermediary steps. Two commonly used attention mechanisms are additive attention and multiplicative attention. As the names suggest, additive attention is a weighted sum while multiplicative attention is a weighted multiplier of the hidden weights. During the training process, the model also learns weights for the attention mechanisms to recognize the relative importance of each time step. Q70 How would you implement an NLP system as a service, and what are some pitfalls you might face in production? This is less of a NLP question than a question for productionizing machine learning models. There are however certain intricacies to NLP models. Steve Nouri Without diving too much into the productionization aspect, an ideal Machine Learning service will have: ● endpoint(s) that other business systems can use to make inference ● a feedback mechanism for validating model predictions ● a database to store predictions and ground truths from the feedback ● a workflow orchestrator which will (upon some signal) re-train and load the new model for serving based on the records from the database + any prior training data ● some form of model version control to facilitate rollbacks in case of bad deployments ● post-production accuracy and error monitoring Q71 How can we handle misspellings for text input? By using word embeddings trained over a large corpus (for instance, an extensive web scrape of billions of words), the model vocabulary would include common misspellings by design. The model can then learn the relationship between misspelled and correctly spelled words to recognize their semantic similarity. We can also preprocess the input to prevent misspellings. Terms not found in the model vocabulary can be mapped to the "closest" vocabulary term using: ● edit distance between strings ● phonetic distance between word pronunciations ● keyword distance to catch common typos Q72 Which of the following models can perform tweet classification with regards to context mentioned above? A) Naive Bayes B) SVM C) None of the above Solution: (C) Since, you are given only the data of tweets and no other information, which means there is no target variable present. One cannot train a supervised learning model, both svm and naive bayes are supervised learning techniques. Q73 You have created a document term matrix of the data, treating every tweet as one document. Which of the following is correct, in regards to document term matrix? 1. Removal of stopwords from the data will affect the dimensionality of data 2. Normalization of words in the data will reduce the dimensionality of data Steve Nouri 3. Converting all the words in lowercase will not affect the dimensionality of the data A) Only 1 B) Only 2 C) Only 3 D) 1 and 2 E) 2 and 3 F) 1, 2 and 3 Solution: (D) Choices A and B are correct because stopword removal will decrease the number of features in the matrix, normalization of words will also reduce redundant features, and, converting all words to lowercase will also decrease the dimensionality. Q74 Which of the following features can be used for accuracy improvement of a classification model?