Deep RNNs While it's good that the introduction of hidden state enabled us to effectively identify the relationship between the inputs, is there a way we can make an RNN "deep" and gain the multi-level abstractions and representations we gain through "depth" in a typical neural network? Here are four possible ways to add depth. 1) We can add hidden states, one on top of another, feeding the output of one to the next. 2) We can also add additional nonlinear hidden layers between input to hidden state. 3) We can increase depth in the hidden to hidden transition. 4) We can increase depth in the hidden to output transition. Bidirectional RNNs Sometimes it's not just about learning from the past to predict the future, but we also need to look into the future to fix the past. In speech recognition and handwriting recognition tasks, where there could be considerable ambiguity given just one part of the input, we often need to know what's coming next to better understand the context and detect the present. This does introduce the obvious challenge of how much into the future we need to look into, because if we have to wait to see all inputs then the entire operation will become costly. And in cases like speech recognition, waiting till an entire sentence is spoken might make for a less compelling use case. Whereas for NLP tasks, where the inputs tend to be available, we can likely consider entire sentences all at once. Also, depending on the application, if the sensitivity to immediate and closer neighbors is higher than inputs that come further away, a variant that looks only into a limited future/past can be modeled. Recursive Neural Network A recurrent neural network parses the inputs in a sequential fashion. A recursive neural network is similar to the extent that the transitions are repeatedly applied to inputs, but not necessarily in a sequential fashion. Recursive Neural Networks are a more general form of Recurrent Neural Networks. It can operate on any hierarchical tree structure. Parsing through input nodes, combining child nodes into parent nodes and combining them with other child/parent nodes to create a tree like structure. Recurrent Neural Networks do the same, but the structure there is strictly linear. i.e. weights are applied on the first input node, then the second, third and so on. But this raises questions pertaining to the structure. How do we decide that? If the structure is fixed like in Recurrent Neural Networks then the process of training, backprop, makes sense in that they are similar to a regular neural network. But if the structure isn't fixed, is that learnt as well? Encoder Decoder Sequence to Sequence RNNs Encoder Decoder or Sequence to Sequence RNNs are used a lot in translation services. The basic idea is that there are two RNNs, one an encoder that keeps updating its hidden state and produces a final single "Context" output. This is then fed to the decoder, which translates this context to a sequence of outputs. Another key difference in this arrangement is that the length of the input sequence and the length of the output sequence need not necessarily be the same. LSTMs LSTM is not a different variant of RNN architecture, but rather it introduces changes to how we compute outputs and hidden state using the inputs. In a vanilla RNN, the input and the hidden state are simply passed through a single tanh layer. LSTM (Long- Short-Term Memory) networks improve on this simple transformation and introduces additional gates and a cell state, such that it fundamentally addresses the problem of keeping or resetting context, across sentences and regardless of the distance between such context resets. There are variants of LSTMs including GRUs that utilize the gates in different manners to address the problem of long-term dependencies. Q15. How Does an LSTM Network Work? Long-Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is a special kind of recurrent neural network capable of learning long- term dependencies, remembering information for long periods as its default behavior. There are three steps in an LSTM network: • Step 1: The network decides what to forget and what to remember. • Step 2: It selectively updates cell state values. • Step 3: The network decides what part of the current state makes it to the output. Recurrent Neural Networks Humans don't start their thinking from scratch every second. As you read this essay, you understand each word based on your understanding of previous words.