Inductive Logic Programming (ILP) is a subfield of machine learning which uses logic programming representing background knowledge and examples. Q80 What is the difference between inductive machine learning and deductive machine learning? The difference between inductive machine learning and deductive machine learning are as follows: machine-learning where the model learns by examples from a set of observed instances to draw a generalized conclusion whereas in deductive learning the model first draws the conclusion and then the conclusion is drawn. Steve Nouri Q81 Difference between machine learning and deep learning Machine learning is a branch of computer science and a method to implement artificial intelligence. This technique provides the ability to automatically learn and improve from experiences without being explicitly programmed. Deep learning can be said as a subset of machine learning. It is mainly based on the artificial neural network where data is taken as an input and the technique makes intuitive decisions using the artificial neural network. Q82 What Are The Steps Involved In Machine Learning Project? As you plan for doing a machine learning project. There are several important steps you must follow to achieve a good working model and they are data collection, data preparation, choosing a machine learning model, training the model, model evaluation, parameter tuning and lastly prediction. Q83 Differences between Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning? Artificial intelligence is a broader prospect than machine learning. Artificial intelligence mimics the cognitive functions of the human brain. The purpose of AI is to carry out a task in an intelligent manner based on algorithms. On the other hand, machine learning is a subclass of artificial intelligence. To develop an autonomous machine in such a way so that it can learn without being explicitly programmed is the goal of machine learning. Q84 Steps Needed to Choose the Appropriate Machine Learning Algorithm for your Classification problem. Firstly, you need to have a clear picture of your data, your constraints, and your problems before heading towards different machine learning algorithms. Secondly, you have to understand which type and kind of data you have because it plays a primary role in deciding which algorithm you have to use. Following this step is the data categorization step, which is a two-step process - categorization by input and categorization by output. The next step is to understand your constraints; that is, what is your data storage capacity? How fast the prediction has to be? etc. Finally, find the available machine learning algorithms and implement them wisely. Along with that, also try to optimize the hyperparameters which can be done in three ways - grid search, random search, and Bayesian optimization. Steve Nouri Q85 Explain Backpropagation in Machine Learning. A very important question for your machine learning interview. Backpropagation is the algorithm for computing artificial neural networks (ANN). It is used by the gradient descent optimization that exploits the chain rule. By calculating the gradient of the loss function, the weight of the neurons is adjusted to a certain value. To train a multi-layered neural network is the prime motivation of backpropagation so that it can learn the appropriate internal demonstrations. This will help them learn to map any input to its respective output arbitrarily. Q86 What is the Convex Function? This question is very often asked in machine learning interviews. A convex function is a continuous function, and the value of the midpoint at every interval in its given domain is less than the numerical mean of the values at the two ends of the interval. Q87 What's the Relationship between True Positive Rate and Recall? The True positive rate in machine learning is the percentage of the positives that have been properly acknowledged, and recall is just the count of the results that have been correctly identified and are relevant. Therefore, they are the same things, just having different names. It is also known as sensitivity. Q88 List some Tools for Parallelizing Machine Learning Algorithms. Although this question may seem very easy, make sure not to skip this one because it is also very closely related to artificial intelligence and thereby, AI interview questions. Almost all machine learning algorithms are easy to serialize. Some of the basic tools for parallelizing are Matlab, Weka, R, Octave, or the Python-based sci-kit learn. Q89 What do you mean by Genetic Programming? Genetic Programming (GP) is almost similar to an Evolutionary Algorithm, a subset of machine learning. Genetic programming software systems implement an algorithm that uses random mutation, a fitness function, crossover, and multiple generations of evolution to resolve a user-defined task.