The only difference between agile methodology and DevOps is that, agile methodology is implemented only for development section and DevOps implements agility on both development as well as operations section. Q18) what are the advantages of using Git? 1. Data redundancy and replication 2. High availability 3. Only one. git directory per repository 4. Superior disk utilization and network performance 5. Collaboration friendly 6. Git can use any sort of projects. Q19) what is kernel? A kernel is the lowest level of easily replaceable software that interfaces with the hardware in your computer. Q20) what is difference between grep -i and grep -v? I ignore alphabet difference V accept this value ex) ls | grep -i docker Dockerfile docker.tar.gz ls | grep -v docker Desktop Dockerfile Documents Downloads You can't see anything with name docker.tar.gz Q21) How can you define particular space to the file This feature is generally used to give the swap space to the server. Lets say in below machine I have to create swap space of 1GB then, dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile1 bs=1G count=1 Q22) what is concept of sudo in linux? Sudo(superuser do) is a utility for UNIX- and Linux-based systems that provides an efficient way to give specific users permission to use specific system commands at the root (most powerful) level of the system. Q23) what is a Jenkins Pipeline? Jenkins Pipeline (or simply "Pipeline") is a suite of plugins which supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins. Q24) How to stop and restart the Docker container? To stop the container: docker stop container ID Now to restart the Docker container: docker restart container ID Q25) What platforms does Docker run on? Docker runs on only Linux and Cloud platforms: • Ubuntu 12.04 LTS+ • Fedora 20+ • RHEL 6.5+ • CentOS 6+ • Gentoo • ArchLinux • openSUSE 12.3+ • CRUX 3.0+ Cloud: • Amazon EC2 • Google Compute Engine • Microsoft Azure • Rackspace Note that Docker does not run on Windows or Mac for production as there is no support, yes you can use it for testing purpose even in windows Q26) what are the tools used for docker networking? For docker networking we generally use kubernets and docker swarm. Q27) what is docker compose? Lets say you want to run multiple docker container, at that time you have to create the docker compose file and type the command docker-compose up. It will run all the containers mentioned in docker compose file. Q28) What is Scrum? Scrum is basically used to divide your complex software and product development task into smaller chunks, using iterations and incremental practises. Each iteration is of two weeks. Scrum consists of three roles: Product owner, scrum master and Team Q29) What does the commit object contain? Commit object contain the following components: It contains a set of files, representing the state of a project at a given point of time reference to parent commit objects An SHAI name, a 40-character string that uniquely identifies the commit object (also called as hash). Q30) Explain the difference between git pull and git fetch? Git pull command basically pulls any new changes or commits from a branch from your central repository and updates your target branch in your local repository. Git fetch is also used for the same purpose, but its slightly different form Git pull. When you trigger a git fetch, it pulls all new commits from the desired branch and stores it in a new branch in your local repository. If we want to reflect these changes in your target branch, git fetch must be followed with a git merge. Our target branch will only be updated after merging the target branch and fetched branch. Just to make it easy for us, remember the equation below: Git pull = git fetch + git merge Q31) How do we know in Git if a branch has already been merged into master? git branch -merged The above command lists the branches that have been merged into the current branch. git branch -no-merged this command lists the branches that have not been merged. Q32) What is 'Staging Area' or 'Index' in GIT? Before committing a file, it must be formatted and reviewed in an intermediate area known as 'Staging Area' or 'Indexing Area'. #git add <file_name> Q33) What is Git Stash?