In NLP, Context modeling is supported with which one of the following word embeddings 1. a. Word2Vec 2. b) GloVe 3. c) BERT 4. d) All of the above Answer : c) Only BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformer) supports context modelling where the previous and next sentence context is taken into consideration. In Word2Vec, GloVe only word embeddings are considered and previous and next sentence context is not considered. Q21. In NLP, Bidirectional context is supported by which of the following embedding a. Word2Vec b. BERT c. GloVe d. All the above Answer : b) Only BERT provides a bidirectional context. The BERT model uses the previous and the next sentence to arrive at the context.Word2Vec and GloVe are word embeddings, they do not provide any context. Q22. Which one of the following Word embeddings can be custom trained for a specific subject in NLP a. Word2Vec b. BERT Steve Nouri c. GloVe d. All the above Answer : b) BERT allows Transform Learning on the existing pre-trained models and hence can be custom trained for the given specific subject, unlike Word2Vec and GloVe where existing word embeddings can be used, no transfer learning on text is possible. Q23. Word embeddings capture multiple dimensions of data and are represented as vectors a. True b. False Answer : a) Q24. In NLP, Word embedding vectors help establish distance between two tokens a. True b. False Answer : a) One can use Cosine similarity to establish distance between two vectors represented through Word Embeddings Q25. Language Biases are introduced due to historical data used during training of word embeddings, which one amongst the below is not an example of bias a. New Delhi is to India, Beijing is to China b. Man is to Computer, Woman is to Homemaker Answer : a) Statement b) is a bias as it buckets Woman into Homemaker, whereas statement a) is not a biased statement. Q26. Which of the following will be a better choice to address NLP use cases such as semantic similarity, reading comprehension, and common sense reasoning a. ELMo b. Open AI's GPT c. ULMFit Answer : b) Open AI's GPT is able to learn complex pattern in data by using the Transformer models Attention mechanism and hence is more suited for complex use cases such as semantic similarity, reading comprehensions, and common sense reasoning. Q27. Transformer architecture was first introduced with? a. GloVe b. BERT Steve Nouri c. Open AI's GPT d. ULMFit Answer : c) ULMFit has an LSTM based Language modeling architecture. This got replaced into Transformer architecture with Open AI's GPT Q28. Which of the following architecture can be trained faster and needs less amount of training data a. LSTM based Language Modelling b. Transformer architecture Answer : b) Transformer architectures were supported from GPT onwards and were faster to train and needed less amount of data for training too. Q29. Same word can have multiple word embeddings possible with ____________? a. GloVe b. Word2Vec c. ELMo d. nltk Answer : c) EMLo word embeddings supports same word with multiple embeddings, this helps in using the same word in a different context and thus captures the context than just meaning of the word unlike in GloVe and Word2Vec. Nltk is not a word embedding. Q30 For a given token, its input representation is the sum of embedding from the token, segment and position embedding a. ELMo b. GPT c. BERT d. ULMFit Answer : c) BERT uses token, segment and position embedding. Q31. Trains two independent LSTM language model left to right and right to left and shallowly concatenates them a. GPT b. BERT c. ULMFit d. ELMo Steve Nouri Answer : d) ELMo tries to train two independent LSTM language models (left to right and right to left) and concatenates the results to produce word embedding. Q32.