We can copy or backup, we need to backup JENKINS_HOME directory which contains the details of all the job configurations, build details etc. Q148) Difference between "poll scm" and "build periodically" Poll SCM will trigger the build only if it detects the change in SCM, whereas Build Periodically will trigger the build once the given time period is elapsed. Q149) What is difference between docker image and docker container? Docker image is a readonly template that contains the instructions for a container to start. Docker container is a runnable instance of a docker image Q150) What is Application Containerization? It is a process of OS Level virtualization technique used to deploy the application without launching the entire VM for each application where multiple isolated applications or services can access the same Host and run on the same OS. Get Devops 100% Practical Training Q151) syntax for building docker image docker build -f <filename> -t imagename:version Q152) running docker image docker run -dt -restart=always -p <hostport>:<containerport> -h <hostname> -v <hostvolume>:<containervolume> imagename:version Q153) How to log into a container docker exec -it <containerID> /bin/bash Q154) What is Puppet? Puppet is a Configuration Management tool, Puppet is used to automate administration tasks. Q155) What is Configuration Management? Configuration Management is the System engineering process. Configuration Management applied over the life cycle of a system provides visibility and control of its performance, functional, and physical attributesrecording their status and in support of Change Management. Q156) List the Software Configuration Management Features. • Enforcement • Cooperating Enablement • Version Control Friendly • Enable Change Control Processes Q157) List out the 5 Best Software Configuration Management Tools. • CFEngine Configuration Tool. • CHEF Configuration Tool • Ansible Configuration Tool • Puppet Configuration Tool. • SALTSTACK Configuration Tool. Q158) Why should Puppet be chosen? • It has good community support • Easy to Learn Programming Language DSL • It is open source Q159) What is Saltstack? SaltStack is based on Python programming & Scripiting language. Its also a configuration tool.Saltstack works on a non-centralized model or a master-client setup model. it provides a push and SSH methods to communicate with clients. Q160) Why should Puppet to be chosen? There are Some Reason puppet to be chosen. • Puppet is open source • Easy to Learn Programming Language DSL • Puppet has good community support Q161) Advantages of VCS 1. Multiple people can work on the same project and it helps us to keep track of the files and documents and their changes. 2. We can merge the changes from multiple developers to single stream. 3. Helps us to revert to the earlier version if the current version is broke. 4. Helps us to maintain multiple version of the software at the same location without rewriting. Q162) Advantages of DevOps Below are the major advantages Technical: 1. Continuous software delivery 2. Less Complexity 3. Faster Resolution Business: 1. Faster delivery of the features 2. More stable operating environment 3. Improved communication and collaboration between various teams Q163) Use cases where we can use DevOps 1. Explain the legacy / old procedures that are followed to develop and deploy software 2. Problems of that approach 3. How can we solve the above issues using DevOps. For the 1st and 2nd points, development of the application, problems in build and deployment, problems in operations, problems in debugging and fixing the issues For 3rd point explain various technologies we can use to ease the deployments, for development, explain about taking small features and development, how it helps for testing and issue fixing. Q164) Major difference between Agile and DevOps Agile is the set of rules/principles and guidelines about how to develop a software. There are chances that this developed software works only on developer's environment. But to release that software to public consumption and deploy in production environment, we will use the DevOps tools and Techniques for the operation of that software. In a nutshell, Agile is the set of rules for the development of a software, but DevOps focus more on Development as well as Operation of the Developed software in various environments. Q165) What Are the Benefits Of Nosql?