But a network is just a series of layers, where the output of one layer becomes the input to the next. That means we can think of any layer in a neural network as the first layer of a smaller subsequent network. Thought of as a series of neural networks feeding into each other, we normalize the output of one layer before applying the activation function and then feed it into the following layer (sub-network). Q9 Why would you use many small convolutional kernels such as 3x3 rather than a few large ones? This is very well explained in the VGGNet paper. There are 2 reasons: First, you can use several smaller kernels rather than few large ones to get the same receptive field and capture more spatial context, but with the smaller kernels you are using less parameters and computations. Secondly, because with smaller kernels you will be using more filters, you'll be able to use more activation functions and thus have a more discriminative mapping function being learned by your CNN. Q10 What is Precision? Precision (also called positive predictive value) is the fraction of relevant instances among the retrieved instances Precision = true positive / (true positive + false positive) Q11 What is Recall? Recall (also known as sensitivity) is the fraction of relevant instances that have been retrieved over the total amount of relevant instances. Recall = true positive / (true positive + false negative) Q12 Define F1-score. It is the weighted average of precision and recall. It considers both false positive and false negatives into account. It is used to measure the model's performance. Steve Nouri F1-Score = 2 * (precision * recall) / (precision + recall) Q13 What is cost function? The cost function is a scalar function that Quantifies the error factor of the Neural Network. Lower the cost function better than the Neural network. Eg: MNIST Data set to classify the image, the input image is digit 2 and the Neural network wrongly predicts it to be 3 Q14 List different activation neurons or functions ● Linear Neuron ● Binary Threshold Neuron ● Stochastic Binary Neuron ● Sigmoid Neuron ● Tanh function ● Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) Q15 Define Learning rate. The learning rate is a hyper-parameter that controls how much we are adjusting the weights of our network with respect to the loss gradient. Q16 What is Momentum (w.r.t NN optimization)? Momentum lets the optimization algorithm remembers its last step, and adds some proportion of it to the current step. This way, even if the algorithm is stuck in a flat region, or a small local minimum, it can get out and continue towards the true minimum. Q17 What is the difference between Batch Gradient Descent and Stochastic Gradient Descent? Batch gradient descent computes the gradient using the whole dataset. This is great for convex or relatively smooth error manifolds. In this case, we move somewhat directly towards an optimum solution, either local or global. Additionally, batch gradient descent, given an annealed learning rate, will eventually find the minimum located in its basin of attraction. Stochastic gradient descent (SGD) computes the gradient using a single sample. SGD works well (Not well, I suppose, but better than batch gradient descent) for error manifolds that have lots of local maxima/minima. In this case, the somewhat noisier gradient calculated using the reduced number of samples tends to jerk the model out of local minima into a region that hopefully is more optimal. Q18 Epoch vs Batch vs Iteration. Epoch: one forward pass and one backward pass of all the training examples Batch: examples processed together in one pass (forward and backward) Iteration: number of training examples / Batch size Steve Nouri Q19 What is the vanishing gradient? As we add more and more hidden layers, backpropagation becomes less and less useful in passing information to the lower layers. In effect, as information is passed back, the gradients begin to vanish and become small relative to the weights of the networks. Q20 What are dropouts? Dropout is a simple way to prevent a neural network from overfitting. It is the dropping out of some of the units in a neural network. It is similar to the natural reproduction process, where nature produces offsprings by combining distinct genes (dropping out others) rather than strengthening the co-adapting of them.