● Cloud Spanner ● Cloud Bigtable ● Firestore ● Firebase Realtime Database ● Memorystore ● Google Cloud Partner Services ● For more database products you can refer Google Cloud Databases ● For more data base solutions you can refer Google cloud Database solutions Q64 What are the Google Cloud storage services? Google Cloud storage provides many services for your business which are running on Google Cloud's infrastructure. ● Cloud Storage (Object storage) ● Persistent disk ● Local SSD ● Cloud Storage (Archival storage) ● Filestore ● Data Transfer Services ● Transfer Appliance ● Cloud Storage for Firebase ● Google Workspace ● For more Google cloud storage refer Google Cloud Storage Q65 What are the different Network services by GCP? Google Cloud provides many Networking services and technologies that make easy to scale and manage your network. ● Hybrid connectivity helps to connect your infrastructure to Google Cloud ● Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) manage networking for your resources ● Cloud DNS is a highly available global domain naming system (DNS) network. ● Service Directory provides a service-centric network solution. Steve Nouri ● Cloud Load Balancing ● Cloud CDN ● Cloud Armor ● Cloud NAT ● Network Telemetry ● VPC Service Controls ● Network Intelligence Center ● Network Service Tiers ● For more about Networking products refer Google Cloud Networking Q66 List some Data Analytics service by GCP. Google Cloud offers various Data Analytics services. ● BigQuery is an multi-cloud data warehouse for business agility that is high scalable, serverless, and cost effective. ● Looker ● DataProc is a service for running Apace Spark and Apace Hadoop Clusters. It makes open-source data and analytics processing easy, fast and more secure in Cloud. ● Dataflow ● Pub/Sub ● Cloud Data Fusion ● Data Catalog ● Cloud Composer ● Google Data Studio ● Dataprep ● Cloud Life Sciences enables life sciences community to manage, process and transform biomedical data at scale. ● Google Marketing Platform is a marketing platform that combines your advertising and analytics to help you make better marketing results, deeper insights and quality customer connections. It's not an Google official cloud product, comes under separate terms of services. ● For Google Cloud analytics services visit Data Analytics Q67 Explain Google BigQuery in Google Cloud Platform For traditional data warehouse, hardware setup replacement is required. In such case, Google BigQuery serves to be the replacement. In addition, BigQuery helps in organizing the table data into unit called as datasets. Q68 Explain Auto-scaling in Google cloud computing Without human intervention, you can mechanically provision and initiate new instances in AWS. Depending on various metrics and load, Auto-scaling is triggered. Steve Nouri Q69 Describe Hypervisor in Google Cloud Platform Hypervisor is otherwise called as VMM (Virtual Machine Monitor). Hypervisor is said to be a computer hardware/software used to create and run virtual machines (virtual machines is also called as Guest machine). Hypervisor is the one that runs on a host machine. Q70 Define VPC in the Google cloud platform VPC is Google cloud platform is helpful is providing connectivity from the premise and to any of the region without internet. VPC Connectivity is for computing App Engine Flex instances, Kubernetes Engine clusters, virtual machine instance and few other resources depending on the projects. Multiple VPC can also be used in numerous projects. Q71. Which service in Azure is used to manage resources in Azure? Azure Resource Manager is used to "manage" infrastructures which involve a no. of azure services. It can be used to deploy, manage and delete all the resources together using a simple JSON script. Q72 Which of the following web applications can be deployed with Azure? Microsoft also has released SDKs for both Java and Ruby to allow applications written in those languages to place calls to the Azure Service Platform API to the AppFabric Service. Q73 What are Roles in Azure and why do we use them? Roles are nothing servers in layman terms. These servers are managed, load balanced, Platform as a Service virtual machines that work together to achieve a common goal.