Root cause analysis was initially developed to analyze industrial accidents but is now widely used in other areas. It is a problem-solving technique used for isolating the root causes of faults or problems. A factor is called a root cause if its deduction from the problem-fault-sequence averts the final undesirable event from recurring. Q22. Do gradient descent methods always converge to similar points? They do not, because in some cases, they reach a local minimum or a local optimum point. You would not reach the global optimum point. This is governed by the data and the starting conditions. Q23. What are the most popular Cloud Services used in Data Science? hybrid-saas/ Q24. What is a Canary Deployment? A canary deployment, or canary release, allows you to rollout your features to only a subset of users as an initial test to make sure nothing else in your system broke. The initial steps for implementing canary deployment are: 1. create two clones of the production environment, 2. have a load balancer that initially sends all traffic to one version, 3. create new functionality in the other version. When you deploy the new software version, you shift some percentage - say, 10% - of your user base to the new version while maintaining 90% of users on the old version. If that 10% reports no errors, you can roll it out to gradually more users, until the new version is being used by everyone. If the 10% has problems, though, you can roll it right back, and 90% of your users will have never even seen the problem. Canary deployment benefits include zero downtime, easy rollout and quick rollback - plus the added safety from the gradual rollout process. It also has some drawbacks - the expense of maintaining multiple server instances, the difficult clone-or-don't-clone database decision. Typically, software development teams implement blue/green deployment when they're sure the new version will work properly and want a simple, fast strategy to deploy it. Conversely, canary deployment is most useful when the development team isn't as sure about the new version and they don't mind a slower rollout if it means they'll be able to catch the bugs. Q25. What is a Blue Green Deployment? Blue-green deployment is a technique that reduces downtime and risk by running two identical production environments called Blue and Green. At any time, only one of the environments is live, with the live environment serving all production traffic. For this example, Blue is currently live, and Green is idle. As you prepare a new version of your model, deployment and the final stage of testing takes place in the environment that is not live: in this example, Green. Once you have deployed and fully tested the model in Green, you switch the router, so all incoming requests now go to Green instead of Blue. Green is now live, and Blue is idle. This technique can eliminate downtime due to app deployment and reduces risk: if something unexpected happens with your new version on Green, you can immediately roll back to the last version by switching back to Blue. This document is based on the original document by Steve Nouri (LinkedIn). Reviewed and corrected by Davide Callegaro (LinkedIn). Original credits to kdnuggets, Simplilearn, Edureka, Guru99, Hackernoon, Datacamp, Nitin Panwar, Michael Rundell. Below some questions the reader shall view the link of the original article. . What is DevOps? Introduction to DevOps | Roles | Payscale By this DevOps Interview Questions and answers, many students are got placed in many reputed companies with high package salary. So utilize our DevOps Interview Questions and answers to grow in your career. Q1) what is DevOps? By the name DevOps, it's very clear that it's a collaboration of Development as well as Operations. But one should know that DevOps is not a tool, or software or framework, DevOps is a Combination of Tools which helps for the automation of the whole infrastructure. DevOps is basically an implementation of Agile methodology on the Development side as well as Operations side. Q2) why do we need DevOps? To fulfil the need of delivering more and faster and better application to meet more and more demands of users, we need DevOps. DevOps helps deployment to happen really fast compared to any other traditional tools. Q3) Mention the key aspects or principle behind DevOps?