These subsets, also called clusters, contain data that are similar to each other. Different clusters reveal different details about the objects, unlike classification or regression. Association ● In an association problem, we identify patterns of associations between different variables or items. ● For example, an eCommerce website can suggest other items for you to buy, based on the prior purchases that you have made, spending habits, items in your wishlist, other customers' purchase habits, and so on. Steve Nouri Q21 What Is 'naive' in the Naive Bayes Classifier? The classifier is called 'naive' because it makes assumptions that may or may not turn out to be correct. The algorithm assumes that the presence of one feature of a class is not related to the presence of any other feature (absolute independence of features), given the class variable. For instance, a fruit may be considered to be a cherry if it is red in color and round in shape, regardless of other features. This assumption may or may not be right (as an apple also matches the description). Q22 Explain Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is a common method of topic modeling, or classifying documents by subject matter. LDA is a generative model that represents documents as a mixture of topics that each have their own probability distribution of possible words. The "Dirichlet" distribution is simply a distribution of distributions. In LDA, documents are distributions of topics that are distributions of words. Q23 Explain Principle Component Analysis (PCA). PCA is a method for transforming features in a dataset by combining them into uncorrelated linear combinations. These new features, or principal components, sequentially maximize the variance represented (i.e. the first principal component has the most variance, the second principal component has the second most, and so on). As a result, PCA is useful for dimensionality reduction because you can set an arbitrary variance cutoff. Q24 What's the F1 score? How would you use it? The F1 score is a measure of a model's performance. It is a weighted average of the precision and recall of a model, with results tending to 1 being the best, and those tending to 0 being the worst. You would use it in classification tests where true negatives don't matter much. Steve Nouri Q25 When should you use classification over regression? Classification produces discrete values and dataset to strict categories, while regression gives you continuous results that allow you to better distinguish differences between individual points. You would use classification over regression if you wanted your results to reflect the belongingness of data points in your dataset to certain explicit categories (ex: If you wanted to know whether a name was male or female rather than just how correlated they were with male and female names.) Q26 How do you ensure you're not overfitting with a model? This is a simple restatement of a fundamental problem in machine learning: the possibility of overfitting training data and carrying the noise of that data through to the test set, thereby providing inaccurate generalizations. There are three main methods to avoid overfitting: 1- Keep the model simpler: reduce variance by taking into account fewer variables and parameters, thereby removing some of the noise in the training data. 2- Use cross-validation techniques such as k-folds cross-validation. 3- Use regularization techniques such as LASSO that penalize certain model parameters if they're likely to cause overfitting. Q27 How Will You Know Which Machine Learning Algorithm to Choose for Your Classification Problem? While there is no fixed rule to choose an algorithm for a classification problem, you can follow these guidelines: ● If accuracy is a concern, test different algorithms and cross-validate them ● If the training dataset is small, use models that have low variance and high bias ● If the training dataset is large, use models that have high variance and little bias Q28 How Do You Design an Email Spam Filter? Building a spam filter involves the following process: ● The email spam filter will be fed with thousands of emails ● Each of these emails already has a label: 'spam' or 'not spam.' ● The supervised machine learning algorithm will then determine which type of emails are being marked as spam based on spam words like the lottery, free offer, no money, full refund, etc.