The code is shown below: for x in range(51): if x % 3 == 0 and x % 5 == 0: print('fizzbuzz') elif x % 3 == 0: print('fizz') elif x % 5 == 0: print('buzz') else: print('fizzbuzz') Q6. You are given a data set consisting of variables with more than 30 percent missing values. How will you deal with them? If the data set is large, we can just simply remove the rows with missing data values. It is the quickest way; we use the rest of the data to predict the values. For smaller data sets, we can impute missing values with the mean, median, or average of the rest of the data using pandas data frame in python. There are different ways to do so, such as: df.mean(), df.fillna(mean) Other option of imputation is using KNN for numeric or classification values (as KNN just uses k closest values to impute the missing value). Q7. For the given points, how will you calculate the Euclidean distance in Python? plot1 = [1,3] plot2 = [2,5] The Euclidean distance can be calculated as follows: euclidean_distance = sqrt((plot1[0]-plot2[0])**2 + (plot1[1]- plot2[1])**2) Q8. What are dimensionality reduction and its benefits? Dimensionality reduction refers to the process of converting a data set with vast dimensions into data with fewer dimensions (fields) to convey similar information concisely. This reduction helps in compressing data and reducing storage space. It also reduces computation time as fewer dimensions lead to less computing. It removes redundant features; for example, there's no point in storing a value in two different units (meters and inches). Q9. How will you calculate eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the following 3x3 matrix? Determinant of ! −K1 and solve to find K. Q10. How should you maintain a deployed model? The steps to maintain a deployed model are (CREM): 1. Monitor: constant monitoring of all models is needed to determine their performance accuracy. When you change something, you want to figure out how your changes are going to affect things. This needs to be monitored to ensure it's doing what it's supposed to do. 2. Evaluate: evaluation metrics of the current model are calculated to determine if a new algorithm is needed. 3. Compare: the new models are compared to each other to determine which model performs the best. 4. Rebuild: the best performing model is re-built on the current state of data. Q11. How can a time-series data be declared as stationery? Q12. 'People who bought this also bought.' recommendations seen on Amazon are a result of which algorithm? The recommendation engine is accomplished with collaborative filtering. Collaborative filtering explains the behavior of other users and their purchase history in terms of ratings, selection, etc. The engine makes predictions on what might interest a person based on the preferences of other users. In this algorithm, item features are unknown. For example, a sales page shows that a certain number of people buy a new phone and also buy tempered glass at the same time. Next time, when a person buys a phone, he or she may see a recommendation to buy tempered glass as well. Q13. What is a Generative Adversarial Network? Suppose there is a wine shop purchasing wine from dealers, which they resell later. But some dealers sell fake wine. In this case, the shop owner should be able to distinguish between fake and authentic wine. The forger will try different techniques to sell fake wine and make sure specific techniques go past the shop owner's check. The shop owner would probably get some feedback from wine experts that some of the wine is not original. The owner would have to improve how he determines whether a wine is fake or authentic. The forger's goal is to create wines that are indistinguishable from the authentic ones while the shop owner intends to tell if the wine is real or not accurately. • There is a noise vector coming into the forger who is generating fake wine. • Here the forger acts as a Generator. • The shop owner acts as a Discriminator.