The number of vertical lines this newly created horizontal line passes is equal to number of clusters. Take a look at the following plot: We can see that the largest vertical distance without any horizontal line passing through it is represented by blue line. So we draw a new horizontal red line that passes through the blue line. Since it crosses the blue line at two points, therefore the number of clusters will be 2. Basically the horizontal line is a threshold, which defines the minimum distance required to be a separate cluster. If we draw a line further down, the threshold required to be a new cluster will be decreased and more clusters will be formed as see in the image below: In the above plot, the horizontal line passes through four vertical lines resulting in four clusters: cluster of points 6,7,8 and 10, cluster of points 3,2,4 and points 9 and 5 will be treated as single point clusters. Q24. What is Ensemble Learning? In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone. Ensembles are a divide-and-conquer approach used to improve performance. The main principle behind ensemble methods is that a group of "weak learners" can come together to form a "strong learner". Each classifier, individually, is a "weak learner," while all the classifiers taken together are a "strong learner". Q25. Describe in brief any type of Ensemble Learning. Ensemble learning has many types but two more popular ensemble learning techniques are mentioned below. Bagging Bagging tries to implement similar learners on small sample populations and then takes a mean of all the predictions. In generalized bagging, you can use different learners on different population. As you expect this helps us to reduce the variance error. Pros Ø Bagging method helps when we face variance or overfitting in the model. It provides an environment to deal with variance by using N learners of same size on same algorithm. Ø During the sampling of train data, there are many observations which overlaps. So, the combination of these learners helps in overcoming the high variance. Ø Bagging uses Bootstrap sampling method (Bootstrapping is any test or metric that uses random sampling with replacement and falls under the broader class of resampling methods.) Cons Ø Bagging is not helpful in case of bias or underfitting in the data. Ø Bagging ignores the value with the highest and the lowest result which may have a wide difference and provides an average result. Boosting Boosting is an iterative technique which adjusts the weight of an observation based on the last classification. If an observation was classified incorrectly, it tries to increase the weight of this observation and vice versa. Boosting in general decreases the bias error and builds strong predictive models. However, they may over fit on the training data. Pros Ø Boosting technique takes care of the weightage of the higher accuracy sample and lower accuracy sample and then gives the combined results. Ø Net error is evaluated in each learning steps. It works good with interactions. Ø Boosting technique helps when we are dealing with bias or underfitting in the data set. Ø Multiple boosting techniques are available. For example: AdaBoost, LPBoost, XGBoost, GradientBoost, BrownBoost Cons Ø Boosting technique often ignores overfitting or variance issues in the data set. Ø It increases the complexity of the classification. Ø Time and computation can be a bit expensive. There are multiple areas where Bagging and Boosting technique is used to boost the accuracy. • Banking: Loan defaulter prediction, fraud transaction • Credit risks • Kaggle competitions • Fraud detection • Recommender system for Netflix • Malware • Wildlife conservations and so on. Q26. What is a Random Forest? How does it work? Random forest is a versatile machine learning method capable of performing: • regression • classification • dimensionality reduction • treat missing values • outlier values It is a type of ensemble learning method, where a group of weak models combine to form a powerful model. The random forest starts with a standard machine learning technique called a "decision tree" which, in ensemble terms, corresponds to our weak learner. In a decision tree, an input is entered at the top and as it traverses down the tree the data gets bucketed into smaller and smaller sets. In Random Forest, we grow multiple trees as opposed to a single tree.